 How are you, Donald? 


 Well, thank you, Lester, and thanks to Hofstra for hosting us.

The central question in this election is really what kind of country we want
to be and what kind of future we'll build together. Today is my
granddaughter's second birthday, so I think about this a lot. First, we have
to build an economy that works for everyone, not just those at the top. That
means we need new jobs, good jobs, with rising incomes.

I want us to invest in you. I want us to invest in your future. That means
jobs in infrastructure, in advanced manufacturing, innovation and technology,
clean, renewable energy, and small business, because most of the new jobs will
come from small business. We also have to make the economy fairer. That starts
with raising the national minimum wage and also guarantee, finally, equal pay
for women's work.

I also want to see more companies do profit-sharing. If you help create the
profits, you should be able to share in them, not just the executives at the
top.

And I want us to do more to support people who are struggling to balance
family and work. I've heard from so many of you about the difficult choices
you face and the stresses that you're under. So let's have paid family leave,
earned sick days. Let's be sure we have affordable child care and debt-free
college.

How are we going to do it? We're going to do it by having the wealthy pay
their fair share and close the corporate loopholes.

Finally, we tonight are on the stage together, Donald Trump and I. Donald,
it's good to be with you. We're going to have a debate where we are talking
about the important issues facing our country. You have to judge us, who can
shoulder the immense, awesome responsibilities of the presidency, who can put
into action the plans that will make your life better. I hope that I will be
able to earn your vote on November 8th.


 Well, I think that trade is an important issue. Of course, we are 5 percent of the world's population; we have to trade with the other 95 percent. And we need to have smart, fair trade deals.

We also, though, need to have a tax system that rewards work and not just
financial transactions. And the kind of plan that Donald has put forth would
be trickle-down economics all over again. In fact, it would be the most
extreme version, the biggest tax cuts for the top percent of the people in
this country than we've ever had.

I call it trumped-up trickle-down, because that's exactly what it would be.
That is not how we grow the economy.

We just have a different view about what's best for growing the economy, how
we make investments that will actually produce jobs and rising incomes.

I think we come at it from somewhat different perspectives. I understand that.
You know, Donald was very fortunate in his life, and that's all to his
benefit. He started his business with $14 million, borrowed from his father,
and he really believes that the more you help wealthy people, the better off
we'll be and that everything will work out from there.

I don't buy that. I have a different experience. My father was a small-
businessman. He worked really hard. He printed drapery fabrics on long tables,
where he pulled out those fabrics and he went down with a silkscreen and
dumped the paint in and took the squeegee and kept going.

And so what I believe is the more we can do for the middle class, the more we
can invest in you, your education, your skills, your future, the better we
will be off and the better we'll grow. That's the kind of economy I want us to
see again.


 Well, let's stop for a second and remember where we were eight years ago. We had the worst financial crisis, the Great Recession, the worst since the 1930s. That was in large part because of tax policies that slashed taxes on the wealthy, failed to invest in the middle class, took their eyes off of Wall Street, and created a perfect storm.

In fact, Donald was one of the people who rooted for the housing crisis. He
said, back in 2006, "Gee, I hope it does collapse, because then I can go in
and buy some and make some money." Well, it did collapse.


 Nine million people—nine million people lost their jobs. Five million people lost their homes. And $13 trillion in family wealth was wiped out.

Now, we have come back from that abyss. And it has not been easy. So we're now
on the precipice of having a potentially much better economy, but the last
thing we need to do is to go back to the policies that failed us in the first
place.

Independent experts have looked at what I've proposed and looked at what
Donald's proposed, and basically they've said this, that if his tax plan,
which would blow up the debt by over $5 trillion and would in some instances
disadvantage middle-class families compared to the wealthy, were to go into
effect, we would lose 3.5 million jobs and maybe have another recession.

They've looked at my plans and they've said, OK, if we can do this, and I
intend to get it done, we will have 10 million more new jobs, because we will
be making investments where we can grow the economy. Take clean energy. Some
country is going to be the clean- energy superpower of the 21st century.
Donald thinks that climate change is a hoax perpetrated by the Chinese. I
think it's real.


 I think science is real.


 And I think it's important that we grip this and deal with it, both at home and abroad. And here's what we can do. We can deploy a half a billion more solar panels. We can have enough clean energy to power every home. We can build a new modern electric grid. That's a lot of jobs; that's a lot of new economic activity.

So I've tried to be very specific about what we can and should do, and I am
determined that we're going to get the economy really moving again, building
on the progress we've made over the last eight years, but never going back to
what got us in trouble in the first place.


 Well, actually...


 Well, actually, I have thought about this quite a bit.


 And I have—well, not quite that long. I think my husband did a pretty good job in the 1990s. I think a lot about what worked and how we can make it work again...


 ... million new jobs, a balanced budget...


 Incomes went up for everybody. Manufacturing jobs went up also in the 1990s, if we're actually going to look at the facts.

When I was in the Senate, I had a number of trade deals that came before me,
and I held them all to the same test. Will they create jobs in America? Will
they raise incomes in America? And are they good for our national security?
Some of them I voted for. The biggest one, a multinational one known as CAFTA,
I voted against. And because I hold the same standards as I look at all of
these trade deals.

But let's not assume that trade is the only challenge we have in the economy.
I think it is a part of it, and I've said what I'm going to do. I'm going to
have a special prosecutor. We're going to enforce the trade deals we have, and
we're going to hold people accountable.

When I was secretary of state, we actually increased American exports globally
30 percent. We increased them to China 50 percent. So I know how to really
work to get new jobs and to get exports that helped to create more new jobs.


 Well, I've been a senator, Donald...


 And I have been a secretary of state...


 And I have done a lot...


 Well, that's your opinion. That is your opinion.


 Well, that is just not accurate. I was against it once it was finally negotiated and the terms were laid out. I wrote about that in...


 No.


 Well, Donald, I know you live in your own reality, but that is not the facts. The facts are—I did say I hoped it would be a good deal, but when it was negotiated...


 ... which I was not responsible for, I concluded it wasn't. I wrote about that in my book...


 ... before you even announced.


 Look, there are differences...


 There are...


 There are different views about what's good for our country, our economy, and our leadership in the world. And I think it's important to look at what we need to do to get the economy going again. That's why I said new jobs with rising incomes, investments, not in more tax cuts that would add $5 trillion to the debt.


 But in—oh, but I do.


 In fact, I have written a book about it. It's called "Stronger Together." You can pick it up tomorrow at a bookstore...


 ... or at an airport near you.


 But it's because I see this—we need to have strong growth, fair growth, sustained growth. We also have to look at how we help families balance the responsibilities at home and the responsibilities at business.

So we have a very robust set of plans. And people have looked at both of our
plans, have concluded that mine would create 10 million jobs and yours would
lose us 3.5 million jobs, and explode the debt which would have a recession.


 That can't—that can't be left to stand.


 I kind of assumed that there would be a lot of these charges and claims, and so...


 So we have taken the home page of my website, HillaryClinton.com, and we've turned it into a fact-checker. So if you want to see in real-time what the facts are, please go and take a look. Because what I have proposed...


 ... would not add a penny to the debt, and your plans would add $5 trillion to the debt. What I have proposed would cut regulations and streamline them for small businesses. What I have proposed would be paid for by raising taxes on the wealthy, because they have made all the gains in the economy. And I think it's time that the wealthy and corporations paid their fair share to support this country.


 Well, at least I have a plan to fight ISIS.


 No, we're not. No, we're not.


 That's a—that's—go to the—please, fact checkers, get to work.


 I have a feeling that by, the end of this evening, I'm going to be blamed for everything that's ever happened.


 Why not? Yeah, why not? 

You know, just join the debate by saying more crazy things. Now, let me say
this, it is absolutely the case...


 Yeah, well, let's start the clock again, Lester. We've looked at your tax proposals. I don't see changes in the corporate tax rates or the kinds of proposals you're referring to that would cause the repatriation, bringing back of money that's stranded overseas. I happen to support that.


 I happen to—I happen to support that in a way that will actually work to our benefit. But when I look at what you have proposed, you have what is called now the Trump loophole, because it would so advantage you and the business you do. You've proposed an approach that has a...


 ... $4 billion tax benefit for your family. And when you look at what you are proposing...


 ... it is...


 ... as I said, trumped-up trickle-down. Trickle-down did not work. It got us into the mess we were in, in 2008 and 2009. Slashing taxes on the wealthy hasn't worked.

And a lot of really smart, wealthy people know that. And they are saying, hey,
we need to do more to make the contributions we should be making to rebuild
the middle class.

I don't think top-down works in America. I think building the middle class,
investing in the middle class, making college debt-free so more young people
can get their education, helping people refinance their—their debt from
college at a lower rate. Those are the kinds of things that will really boost
the economy. Broad-based, inclusive growth is what we need in America, not
more advantages for people at the very top.


 Well, I think you've seen another example of bait-and- switch here. For 40 years, everyone running for president has released their tax returns. You can go and see nearly, I think, 39, 40 years of our tax returns, but everyone has done it. We know the IRS has made clear there is no prohibition on releasing it when you're under audit.

So you've got to ask yourself, why won't he release his tax returns? And I
think there may be a couple of reasons. First, maybe he's not as rich as he
says he is. Second, maybe he's not as charitable as he claims to be.

Third, we don't know all of his business dealings, but we have been told
through investigative reporting that he owes about $650 million to Wall Street
and foreign banks. Or maybe he doesn't want the American people, all of you
watching tonight, to know that he's paid nothing in federal taxes, because the
only years that anybody's ever seen were a couple of years when he had to turn
them over to state authorities when he was trying to get a casino license, and
they showed he didn't pay any federal income tax.


 So if he's paid zero, that means zero for troops, zero for vets, zero for schools or health. And I think probably he's not all that enthusiastic about having the rest of our country see what the real reasons are, because it must be something really important, even terrible, that he's trying to hide.

And the financial disclosure statements, they don't give you the tax rate.
They don't give you all the details that tax returns would. And it just seems
to me that this is something that the American people deserve to see. And I
have no reason to believe that he's ever going to release his tax returns,
because there's something he's hiding.

And we'll guess. We'll keep guessing at what it might be that he's hiding. But
I think the question is, were he ever to get near the White House, what would
be those conflicts? Who does he owe money to? Well, he owes you the answers to
that, and he should provide them.


 I do. You know, I made a mistake using a private e- mail.


 And if I had to do it over again, I would, obviously, do it differently. But I'm not going to make any excuses. It was a mistake, and I take responsibility for that.


 And maybe because you haven't paid any federal income tax for a lot of years. 

And the other thing I think is important...


 ... is if your—if your main claim to be president of the United States is your business, then I think we should talk about that. You know, your campaign manager said that you built a lot of businesses on the backs of little guys.

And, indeed, I have met a lot of the people who were stiffed by you and your
businesses, Donald. I've met dishwashers, painters, architects, glass
installers, marble installers, drapery installers, like my dad was, who you
refused to pay when they finished the work that you asked them to do.

We have an architect in the audience who designed one of your clubhouses at
one of your golf courses. It's a beautiful facility. It immediately was put to
use. And you wouldn't pay what the man needed to be paid, what he was charging
you to do...


 Well, to...


 Do the thousands of people that you have stiffed over the course of your business not deserve some kind of apology from someone who has taken their labor, taken the goods that they produced, and then refused to pay them?

I can only say that I'm certainly relieved that my late father never did
business with you. He provided a good middle-class life for us, but the people
he worked for, he expected the bargain to be kept on both sides.

And when we talk about your business, you've taken business bankruptcy six
times. There are a lot of great businesspeople that have never taken
bankruptcy once. You call yourself the King of Debt. You talk about leverage.
You even at one time suggested that you would try to negotiate down the
national debt of the United States.


 Well, sometimes there's not a direct transfer of skills from business to government, but sometimes what happened in business would be really bad for government.


 And we need to be very clear about that.


 Well, you're right. Race remains a significant challenge in our country. Unfortunately, race still determines too much, often determines where people live, determines what kind of education in their public schools they can get, and, yes, it determines how they're treated in the criminal justice system. We've just seen those two tragic examples in both Tulsa and Charlotte.

And we've got to do several things at the same time. We have to restore trust
between communities and the police. We have to work to make sure that our
police are using the best training, the best techniques, that they're well
prepared to use force only when necessary. Everyone should be respected by the
law, and everyone should respect the law.

Right now, that's not the case in a lot of our neighborhoods. So I have, ever
since the first day of my campaign, called for criminal justice reform. I've
laid out a platform that I think would begin to remedy some of the problems we
have in the criminal justice system.

But we also have to recognize, in addition to the challenges that we face with
policing, there are so many good, brave police officers who equally want
reform. So we have to bring communities together in order to begin working on
that as a mutual goal. And we've got to get guns out of the hands of people
who should not have them.

The gun epidemic is the leading cause of death of young African- American men,
more than the next nine causes put together. So we have to do two things, as I
said. We have to restore trust. We have to work with the police. We have to
make sure they respect the communities and the communities respect them. And
we have to tackle the plague of gun violence, which is a big contributor to a
lot of the problems that we're seeing today.


 Well, I've heard—I've heard Donald say this at his rallies, and it's really unfortunate that he paints such a dire negative picture of black communities in our country.


 You know, the vibrancy of the black church, the black businesses that employ so many people, the opportunities that so many families are working to provide for their kids. There's a lot that we should be proud of and we should be supporting and lifting up.

But we do always have to make sure we keep people safe. There are the right
ways of doing it, and then there are ways that are ineffective. Stop-and-frisk
was found to be unconstitutional and, in part, because it was ineffective. It
did not do what it needed to do.

Now, I believe in community policing. And, in fact, violent crime is one-half
of what it was in 1991. Property crime is down 40 percent. We just don't want
to see it creep back up. We've had 25 years of very good cooperation.

But there were some problems, some unintended consequences. Too many young
African-American and Latino men ended up in jail for nonviolent offenses. And
it's just a fact that if you're a young African-American man and you do the
same thing as a young white man, you are more likely to be arrested, charged,
convicted, and incarcerated. So we've got to address the systemic racism in
our criminal justice system. We cannot just say law and order. We have to
say—we have to come forward with a plan that is going to divert people from
the criminal justice system, deal with mandatory minimum sentences, which have
put too many people away for too long for doing too little.

We need to have more second chance programs. I'm glad that we're ending
private prisons in the federal system; I want to see them ended in the state
system. You shouldn't have a profit motivation to fill prison cells with young
Americans. So there are some positive ways we can work on this.

And I believe strongly that commonsense gun safety measures would assist us.
Right now—and this is something Donald has supported, along with the gun
lobby—right now, we've got too many military- style weapons on the streets. In
a lot of places, our police are outgunned. We need comprehensive background
checks, and we need to keep guns out of the hands of those who will do harm.

And we finally need to pass a prohibition on anyone who's on the terrorist
watch list from being able to buy a gun in our country. If you're too
dangerous to fly, you are too dangerous to buy a gun. So there are things we
can do, and we ought to do it in a bipartisan way.


 Lester, I think implicit bias is a problem for everyone, not just police. I think, unfortunately, too many of us in our great country jump to conclusions about each other. And therefore, I think we need all of us to be asking hard questions about, you know, why am I feeling this way?

But when it comes to policing, since it can have literally fatal consequences,
I have said, in my first budget, we would put money into that budget to help
us deal with implicit bias by retraining a lot of our police officers.

I've met with a group of very distinguished, experienced police chiefs a few
weeks ago. They admit it's an issue. They've got a lot of concerns. Mental
health is one of the biggest concerns, because now police are having to handle
a lot of really difficult mental health problems on the street.

They want support, they want more training, they want more assistance. And I
think the federal government could be in a position where we would offer and
provide that.


 Well, it's also fair to say, if we're going to talk about mayors, that under the current mayor, crime has continued to drop, including murders. So there is...


 No, I'm not.


 New York—New York has done an excellent job. And I give credit—I give credit across the board going back two mayors, two police chiefs, because it has worked. And other communities need to come together to do what will work, as well.

Look, one murder is too many. But it is important that we learn about what has
been effective. And not go to things that sound good that really did not have
the kind of impact that we would want. Who disagrees with keeping
neighborhoods safe?

But let's also add, no one should disagree about respecting the rights of
young men who live in those neighborhoods. And so we need to do a better job
of working, again, with the communities, faith communities, business
communities, as well as the police to try to deal with this problem.


 Well, I—I do think...


 I think—I think—I think Donald just criticized me for preparing for this debate. And, yes, I did. And you know what else I prepared for? I prepared to be president. And I think that's a good thing. 


 Well, just listen to what you heard. 

And clearly, as Donald just admitted, he knew he was going to stand on this
debate stage, and Lester Holt was going to be asking us questions, so he tried
to put the whole racist birther lie to bed.

But it can't be dismissed that easily. He has really started his political
activity based on this racist lie that our first black president was not an
American citizen. There was absolutely no evidence for it, but he persisted,
he persisted year after year, because some of his supporters, people that he
was trying to bring into his fold, apparently believed it or wanted to believe
it.

But, remember, Donald started his career back in 1973 being sued by the
Justice Department for racial discrimination because he would not rent
apartments in one of his developments to African-Americans, and he made sure
that the people who worked for him understood that was the policy. He actually
was sued twice by the Justice Department.

So he has a long record of engaging in racist behavior. And the birther lie
was a very hurtful one. You know, Barack Obama is a man of great dignity. And
I could tell how much it bothered him and annoyed him that this was being
touted and used against him.

But I like to remember what Michelle Obama said in her amazing speech at our
Democratic National Convention: When they go low, we go high. And Barack Obama
went high, despite Donald Trump's best efforts to bring him down.


 Well, I think cyber security, cyber warfare will be one of the biggest challenges facing the next president, because clearly we're facing at this point two different kinds of adversaries. There are the independent hacking groups that do it mostly for commercial reasons to try to steal information that they can use to make money.

But increasingly, we are seeing cyber attacks coming from states, organs of
states. The most recent and troubling of these has been Russia. There's no
doubt now that Russia has used cyber attacks against all kinds of
organizations in our country, and I am deeply concerned about this. I know
Donald's very praiseworthy of Vladimir Putin, but Putin is playing a really...



...tough, long game here. And one of the things he's done is to let loose
cyber attackers to hack into government files, to hack into personal files,
hack into the Democratic National Committee. And we recently have learned
that, you know, that this is one of their preferred methods of trying to wreak
havoc and collect information. We need to make it very clear—whether it's
Russia, China, Iran or anybody else—the United States has much greater
capacity. And we are not going to sit idly by and permit state actors to go
after our information, our private-sector information or our public-sector
information.

And we're going to have to make it clear that we don't want to use the kinds
of tools that we have. We don't want to engage in a different kind of warfare.
But we will defend the citizens of this country.

And the Russians need to understand that. I think they've been treating it as
almost a probing, how far would we go, how much would we do. And that's why I
was so—I was so shocked when Donald publicly invited Putin to hack into
Americans. That is just unacceptable. It's one of the reasons why 50 national
security officials who served in Republican information—in administrations...


 ... have said that Donald is unfit to be the commander- in-chief. It's comments like that that really worry people who understand the threats that we face.


 Well, I think there are a number of issues that we should be addressing. I have put forth a plan to defeat ISIS. It does involve going after them online. I think we need to do much more with our tech companies to prevent ISIS and their operatives from being able to use the Internet to radicalize, even direct people in our country and Europe and elsewhere.

But we also have to intensify our air strikes against ISIS and eventually
support our Arab and Kurdish partners to be able to actually take out ISIS in
Raqqa, end their claim of being a Caliphate.

We're making progress. Our military is assisting in Iraq. And we're hoping
that within the year we'll be able to push ISIS out of Iraq and then, you
know, really squeeze them in Syria.

But we have to be cognizant of the fact that they've had foreign fighters
coming to volunteer for them, foreign money, foreign weapons, so we have to
make this the top priority.

And I would also do everything possible to take out their leadership. I was
involved in a number of efforts to take out Al Qaida leadership when I was
secretary of state, including, of course, taking out bin Laden. And I think we
need to go after Baghdadi, as well, make that one of our organizing
principles. Because we've got to defeat ISIS, and we've got to do everything
we can to disrupt their propaganda efforts online.


 Well, I hope the fact-checkers are turning up the volume and really working hard. Donald supported the invasion of Iraq.


 That is absolutely proved over and over again.


 He actually advocated for the actions we took in Libya and urged that Gadhafi be taken out, after actually doing some business with him one time.

But the larger point—and he says this constantly—is George W. Bush made the
agreement about when American troops would leave Iraq, not Barack Obama.

And the only way that American troops could have stayed in Iraq is to get an
agreement from the then-Iraqi government that would have protected our troops,
and the Iraqi government would not give that.

But let's talk about the question you asked, Lester. The question you asked
is, what do we do here in the United States? That's the most important part of
this. How do we prevent attacks? How do we protect our people?

And I think we've got to have an intelligence surge, where we are looking for
every scrap of information. I was so proud of law enforcement in New York, in
Minnesota, in New Jersey. You know, they responded so quickly, so
professionally to the attacks that occurred by Rahami. And they brought him
down. And we may find out more information because he is still alive, which
may prove to be an intelligence benefit.

So we've got to do everything we can to vacuum up intelligence from Europe,
from the Middle East. That means we've got to work more closely with our
allies, and that's something that Donald has been very dismissive of.

We're working with NATO, the longest military alliance in the history of the
world, to really turn our attention to terrorism. We're working with our
friends in the Middle East, many of which, as you know, are Muslim majority
nations. Donald has consistently insulted Muslims abroad, Muslims at home,
when we need to be cooperating with Muslim nations and with the American
Muslim community.

They're on the front lines. They can provide information to us that we might
not get anywhere else. They need to have close working cooperation with law
enforcement in these communities, not be alienated and pushed away as some of
Donald's rhetoric, unfortunately, has led to.


 Lester, we've covered...


 We've covered this ground.


 Whew, OK. 

Let's talk about two important issues that were briefly mentioned by Donald,
first, NATO. You know, NATO as a military alliance has something called
Article 5, and basically it says this: An attack on one is an attack on all.
And you know the only time it's ever been invoked? After 9/11, when the 28
nations of NATO said that they would go to Afghanistan with us to fight
terrorism, something that they still are doing by our side.

With respect to Iran, when I became secretary of state, Iran was weeks away
from having enough nuclear material to form a bomb. They had mastered the
nuclear fuel cycle under the Bush administration. They had built covert
facilities. They had stocked them with centrifuges that were whirling away.

And we had sanctioned them. I voted for every sanction against Iran when I was
in the Senate, but it wasn't enough. So I spent a year-and-a-half putting
together a coalition that included Russia and China to impose the toughest
sanctions on Iran.

And we did drive them to the negotiating table. And my successor, John Kerry,
and President Obama got a deal that put a lid on Iran's nuclear program
without firing a single shot. That's diplomacy. That's coalition-building.
That's working with other nations.

The other day, I saw Donald saying that there were some Iranian sailors on a
ship in the waters off of Iran, and they were taunting American sailors who
were on a nearby ship. He said, you know, if they taunted our sailors, I'd
blow them out of the water and start another war. That's not good judgment.


 That is not the right temperament to be commander-in- chief, to be taunted. And the worst part...


 ... of what we heard Donald say has been about nuclear weapons. He has said repeatedly that he didn't care if other nations got nuclear weapons, Japan, South Korea, even Saudi Arabia. It has been the policy of the United States, Democrats and Republicans, to do everything we could to reduce the proliferation of nuclear weapons. He even said, well, you know, if there were nuclear war in East Asia, well, you know, that's fine...


 ... have a good time, folks.


 And, in fact, his cavalier attitude about nuclear weapons is so deeply troubling. That is the number-one threat we face in the world. And it becomes particularly threatening if terrorists ever get their hands on any nuclear material. So a man who can be provoked by a tweet should not have his fingers anywhere near the nuclear codes, as far as I think anyone with any sense about this should be concerned.


 It's a good one, though. It well describes the problem. 


 Well, let me—let me start by saying, words matter. Words matter when you run for president. And they really matter when you are president. And I want to reassure our allies in Japan and South Korea and elsewhere that we have mutual defense treaties and we will honor them.

It is essential that America's word be good. And so I know that this campaign
has caused some questioning and worries on the part of many leaders across the
globe. I've talked with a number of them. But I want to—on behalf of myself,
and I think on behalf of a majority of the American people, say that, you
know, our word is good.

It's also important that we look at the entire global situation. There's no
doubt that we have other problems with Iran. But personally, I'd rather deal
with the other problems having put that lid on their nuclear program than
still to be facing that.

And Donald never tells you what he would do. Would he have started a war?
Would he have bombed Iran? If he's going to criticize a deal that has been
very successful in giving us access to Iranian facilities that we never had
before, then he should tell us what his alternative would be. But it's like
his plan to defeat ISIS. He says it's a secret plan, but the only secret is
that he has no plan.

So we need to be more precise in how we talk about these issues. People around
the word follow our presidential campaigns so closely, trying to get hints
about what we will do. Can they rely on us? Are we going to lead the world
with strength and in accordance with our values? That's what I intend to do. I
intend to be a leader of our country that people can count on, both here at
home and around the world, to make decisions that will further peace and
prosperity, but also stand up to bullies, whether they're abroad or at home.

We cannot let those who would try to destabilize the world to interfere with
American interests and security...


 ... to be given any opportunities at all.


 Well, as soon as he travels to 112 countries and negotiates a peace deal, a cease-fire, a release of dissidents, an opening of new opportunities in nations around the world, or even spends 11 hours testifying in front of a congressional committee, he can talk to me about stamina. 


 Well, one thing. One thing, Lester.


 You know, he tried to switch from looks to stamina. But this is a man who has called women pigs, slobs and dogs, and someone who has said pregnancy is an inconvenience to employers, who has said...


 .... women don't deserve equal pay unless they do as good a job as men.


 And one of the worst things he said was about a woman in a beauty contest. He loves beauty contests, supporting them and hanging around them. And he called this woman "Miss Piggy." Then he called her "Miss Housekeeping," because she was Latina. Donald, she has a name.


 Her name is Alicia Machado.


 And she has become a U.S. citizen, and you can bet...


 ... she's going to vote this November.


 Well, I support our democracy. And sometimes you win, sometimes you lose. But I certainly will support the outcome of this election.

And I know Donald's trying very hard to plant doubts about it, but I hope the
people out there understand: This election's really up to you. It's not about
us so much as it is about you and your families and the kind of country and
future you want. So I sure hope you will get out and vote as though your
future depended on it, because I think it does.


 Well, thank you. Are you a teacher? Yes, I think that that's a very good question, because I've heard from lots of teachers and parents about some of their concerns about some of the things that are being said and done in this campaign.

And I think it is very important for us to make clear to our children that our
country really is great because we're good. And we are going to respect one
another, lift each other up. We are going to be looking for ways to celebrate
our diversity, and we are going to try to reach out to every boy and girl, as
well as every adult, to bring them in to working on behalf of our country.

I have a very positive and optimistic view about what we can do together.
That's why the slogan of my campaign is "Stronger Together," because I think
if we work together, if we overcome the divisiveness that sometimes sets
Americans against one another, and instead we make some big goals—and I've set
forth some big goals, getting the economy to work for everyone, not just those
at the top, making sure that we have the best education system from preschool
through college and making it affordable, and so much else.

If we set those goals and we go together to try to achieve them, there's
nothing in my opinion that America can't do. So that's why I hope that we will
come together in this campaign. Obviously, I'm hoping to earn your vote, I'm
hoping to be elected in November, and I can promise you, I will work with
every American.

I want to be the president for all Americans, regardless of your political
beliefs, where you come from, what you look like, your religion. I want us to
heal our country and bring it together because that's, I think, the best way
for us to get the future that our children and our grandchildren deserve.


 Well, like everyone else, I've spent a lot of time thinking over the last 48 hours about what we heard and saw. You know, with prior Republican nominees for president, I disagreed with them on politics, policies, principles, but I never questioned their fitness to serve.

Donald Trump is different. I said starting back in June that he was not fit to
be president and commander-in-chief. And many Republicans and independents
have said the same thing. What we all saw and heard on Friday was Donald
talking about women, what he thinks about women, what he does to women. And he
has said that the video doesn't represent who he is.

But I think it's clear to anyone who heard it that it represents exactly who
he is. Because we've seen this throughout the campaign. We have seen him
insult women. We've seen him rate women on their appearance, ranking them from
one to ten. We've seen him embarrass women on TV and on Twitter. We saw him
after the first debate spend nearly a week denigrating a former Miss Universe
in the harshest, most personal terms.

So, yes, this is who Donald Trump is. But it's not only women, and it's not
only this video that raises questions about his fitness to be our president,
because he has also targeted immigrants, African- Americans, Latinos, people
with disabilities, POWs, Muslims, and so many others.

So this is who Donald Trump is. And the question for us, the question our
country must answer is that this is not who we are. That's why—to go back to
your question—I want to send a message—we all should—to every boy and girl
and, indeed, to the entire world that America already is great, but we are
great because we are good, and we will respect one another, and we will work
with one another, and we will celebrate our diversity.

These are very important values to me, because this is the America that I know
and love. And I can pledge to you tonight that this is the America that I will
serve if I'm so fortunate enough to become your president.


 Well, first, let me start by saying that so much of what he's just said is not right, but he gets to run his campaign any way he chooses. He gets to decide what he wants to talk about. Instead of answering people's questions, talking about our agenda, laying out the plans that we have that we think can make a better life and a better country, that's his choice.

When I hear something like that, I am reminded of what my friend, Michelle
Obama, advised us all: When they go low, you go high. 

And, look, if this were just about one video, maybe what he's saying tonight
would be understandable, but everyone can draw their own conclusions at this
point about whether or not the man in the video or the man on the stage
respects women. But he never apologizes for anything to anyone.

He never apologized to Mr. and Mrs. Khan, the Gold Star family whose son,
Captain Khan, died in the line of duty in Iraq. And Donald insulted and
attacked them for weeks over their religion.

He never apologized to the distinguished federal judge who was born in
Indiana, but Donald said he couldn't be trusted to be a judge because his
parents were, quote, "Mexican."

He never apologized to the reporter that he mimicked and mocked on national
television and our children were watching. And he never apologized for the
racist lie that President Obama was not born in the United States of America.
He owes the president an apology, he owes our country an apology, and he needs
to take responsibility for his actions and his words.


 ... because everything he just said is absolutely false, but I'm not surprised.


 In the first debate...


 ... I told people that it would be impossible to be fact-checking Donald all the time. I'd never get to talk about anything I want to do and how we're going to really make lives better for people.

So, once again, go to HillaryClinton.com. We have literally Trump—you can fact
check him in real time. Last time at the first debate, we had millions of
people fact checking, so I expect we'll have millions more fact checking,
because, you know, it is—it's just awfully good that someone with the
temperament of Donald Trump is not in charge of the law in our country.


 Well, Martha, first, let me say—and I've said before, but I'll repeat it, because I want everyone to hear it—that was a mistake, and I take responsibility for using a personal e-mail account. Obviously, if I were to do it over again, I would not. I'm not making any excuses. It was a mistake. And I am very sorry about that.

But I think it's also important to point out where there are some misleading
accusations from critics and others. After a year-long investigation, there is
no evidence that anyone hacked the server I was using and there is no evidence
that anyone can point to at all—anyone who says otherwise has no basis—that
any classified material ended up in the wrong hands.

I take classified materials very seriously and always have. When I was on the
Senate Armed Services Committee, I was privy to a lot of classified material.
Obviously, as secretary of state, I had some of the most important secrets
that we possess, such as going after bin Laden. So I am very committed to
taking classified information seriously. And as I said, there is no evidence
that any classified information ended up in the wrong hands.


 Look, it's just not true. And so please, go to...


 It was personal e-mails, not official.


 Not—well, we turned over 35,000, so...


 Yes, that's true, I didn't.


 I didn't in the first debate, and I'm going to try not to in this debate, because I'd like to get to the questions that the people have brought here tonight to talk to us about.


 OK, Donald. I know you're into big diversion tonight, anything to avoid talking about your campaign and the way it's exploding and the way Republicans are leaving you. But let's at least focus...


 ... on some of the issues that people care about tonight. Let's get to their questions.


 If he wants to start, he can start. No, go ahead, Donald.


 Well, I think Donald was about to say he's going to solve it by repealing it and getting rid of the Affordable Care Act. And I'm going to fix it, because I agree with you. Premiums have gotten too high. Copays, deductibles, prescription drug costs, and I've laid out a series of actions that we can take to try to get those costs down.

But here's what I don't want people to forget when we're talking about reining
in the costs, which has to be the highest priority of the next president, when
the Affordable Care Act passed, it wasn't just that 20 million got insurance
who didn't have it before. But that in and of itself was a good thing. I meet
these people all the time, and they tell me what a difference having that
insurance meant to them and their families.

But everybody else, the 170 million of us who get health insurance through our
employees got big benefits. Number one, insurance companies can't deny you
coverage because of a pre-existing condition. Number two, no lifetime limits,
which is a big deal if you have serious health problems.

Number three, women can't be charged more than men for our health insurance,
which is the way it used to be before the Affordable Care Act. Number four, if
you're under 26, and your parents have a policy, you can be on that policy
until the age of 26, something that didn't happen before.

So I want very much to save what works and is good about the Affordable Care
Act. But we've got to get costs down. We've got to provide additional help to
small businesses so that they can afford to provide health insurance. But if
we repeal it, as Donald has proposed, and start over again, all of those
benefits I just mentioned are lost to everybody, not just people who get their
health insurance on the exchange. And then we would have to start all over
again.

Right now, we are at 90 percent health insurance coverage. That's the highest
we've ever been in our country.


 So I want us to get to 100 percent, but get costs down and keep quality up.


 No, I mean, he clarified what he meant. And it's very clear. Look, we are in a situation in our country where if we were to start all over again, we might come up with a different system. But we have an employer-based system. That's where the vast majority of people get their health care.

And the Affordable Care Act was meant to try to fill the gap between people
who were too poor and couldn't put together any resources to afford health
care, namely people on Medicaid. Obviously, Medicare, which is a single-payer
system, which takes care of our elderly and does a great job doing it, by the
way, and then all of the people who were employed, but people who were working
but didn't have the money to afford insurance and didn't have anybody, an
employer or anybody else, to help them.

That was the slot that the Obamacare approach was to take. And like I say, 20
million people now have health insurance. So if we just rip it up and throw it
away, what Donald's not telling you is we just turn it back to the insurance
companies the way it used to be, and that means the insurance companies...


 ... get to do pretty much whatever they want, including saying, look, I'm sorry, you've got diabetes, you had cancer, your child has asthma...


 ... you may not be able to have insurance because you can't afford it. So let's fix what's broken about it, but let's not throw it away and give it all back to the insurance companies and the drug companies. That's not going to work.


 Well, thank you for asking your question. And I've heard this question from a lot of Muslim-Americans across our country, because, unfortunately, there's been a lot of very divisive, dark things said about Muslims. And even someone like Captain Khan, the young man who sacrificed himself defending our country in the United States Army, has been subject to attack by Donald.

I want to say just a couple of things. First, we've had Muslims in America
since George Washington. And we've had many successful Muslims. We just lost a
particular well-known one with Muhammad Ali.

My vision of America is an America where everyone has a place, if you're
willing to work hard, you do your part, you contribute to the community.
That's what America is. That's what we want America to be for our children and
our grandchildren.

It's also very short-sighted and even dangerous to be engaging in the kind of
demagogic rhetoric that Donald has about Muslims. We need American Muslims to
be part of our eyes and ears on our front lines. I've worked with a lot of
different Muslim groups around America. I've met with a lot of them, and I've
heard how important it is for them to feel that they are wanted and included
and part of our country, part of our homeland security, and that's what I want
to see.

It's also important I intend to defeat ISIS, to do so in a coalition with
majority Muslim nations. Right now, a lot of those nations are hearing what
Donald says and wondering, why should we cooperate with the Americans? And
this is a gift to ISIS and the terrorists, violent jihadist terrorists.

We are not at war with Islam. And it is a mistake and it plays into the hands
of the terrorists to act as though we are. So I want a country where citizens
like you and your family are just as welcome as anyone else.


 Well, first of all, I will not let anyone into our country that I think poses a risk to us. But there are a lot of refugees, women and children—think of that picture we all saw of that 4-year-old boy with the blood on his forehead because he'd been bombed by the Russian and Syrian air forces.

There are children suffering in this catastrophic war, largely, I believe,
because of Russian aggression. And we need to do our part. We by no means are
carrying anywhere near the load that Europe and others are. But we will have
vetting that is as tough as it needs to be from our professionals, our
intelligence experts and others.

But it is important for us as a policy, you know, not to say, as Donald has
said, we're going to ban people based on a religion. How do you do that? We
are a country founded on religious freedom and liberty. How do we do what he
has advocated without causing great distress within our own county? Are we
going to have religious tests when people fly into our country? And how do we
expect to be able to implement those?

So I thought that what he said was extremely unwise and even dangerous. And
indeed, you can look at the propaganda on a lot of the terrorists sites, and
what Donald Trump says about Muslims is used to recruit fighters, because they
want to create a war between us.

And the final thing I would say, this is the 10th or 12th time that he's
denied being for the war in Iraq. We have it on tape. The entire press corps
has looked at it. It's been debunked, but it never stops him from saying
whatever he wants to say.


 So, please...


 ... go to HillaryClinton.com and you can see it.


 Well, right. As I recall, that was something I said about Abraham Lincoln after having seen the wonderful Steven Spielberg movie called "Lincoln." It was a master class watching President Lincoln get the Congress to approve the 13th Amendment. It was principled, and it was strategic.

And I was making the point that it is hard sometimes to get the Congress to do
what you want to do and you have to keep working at it. And, yes, President
Lincoln was trying to convince some people, he used some arguments, convincing
other people, he used other arguments. That was a great—I thought a great
display of presidential leadership.

But, you know, let's talk about what's really going on here, Martha, because
our intelligence community just came out and said in the last few days that
the Kremlin, meaning Putin and the Russian government, are directing the
attacks, the hacking on American accounts to influence our election. And
WikiLeaks is part of that, as are other sites where the Russians hack
information, we don't even know if it's accurate information, and then they
put it out.

We have never in the history of our country been in a situation where an
adversary, a foreign power, is working so hard to influence the outcome of the
election. And believe me, they're not doing it to get me elected. They're
doing it to try to influence the election for Donald Trump.

Now, maybe because he has praised Putin, maybe because he says he agrees with
a lot of what Putin wants to do, maybe because he wants to do business in
Moscow, I don't know the reasons. But we deserve answers. And we should demand
that Donald release all of his tax returns so that people can see what are the
entanglements and the financial relationships that he has...


 ... with the Russians and other foreign powers.


 Well, everything you've heard just now from Donald is not true. I'm sorry I have to keep saying this, but he lives in an alternative reality. And it is sort of amusing to hear somebody who hasn't paid federal income taxes in maybe 20 years talking about what he's going to do.

But I'll tell you what he's going to do. His plan will give the wealthy and
corporations the biggest tax cuts they've ever had, more than the Bush tax
cuts by at least a factor of two. Donald always takes care of Donald and
people like Donald, and this would be a massive gift. And, indeed, the way
that he talks about his tax cuts would end up raising taxes on middle-class
families, millions of middle-class families.

Now, here's what I want to do. I have said nobody who makes less than $250,000
a year—and that's the vast majority of Americans as you know—will have their
taxes raised, because I think we've got to go where the money is. And the
money is with people who have taken advantage of every single break in the tax
code.

And, yes, when I was a senator, I did vote to close corporate loopholes. I
voted to close, I think, one of the loopholes he took advantage of when he
claimed a billion-dollar loss that enabled him to avoid paying taxes.

I want to have a tax on people who are making a million dollars. It's called
the Buffett rule. Yes, Warren Buffett is the one who's gone out and said
somebody like him should not be paying a lower tax rate than his secretary. I
want to have a surcharge on incomes above $5 million.

We have to make up for lost times, because I want to invest in you. I want to
invest in hard-working families. And I think it's been unfortunate, but it's
happened, that since the Great Recession, the gains have all gone to the top.
And we need to reverse that.

People like Donald, who paid zero in taxes, zero for our vets, zero for our
military, zero for health and education, that is wrong.


 And we're going to make sure that nobody, no corporation, and no individual can get away without paying his fair share to support our country.


 Well, here we go again. I've been in favor of getting rid of carried interest for years, starting when I was a senator from New York. But that's not the point here.


 Because I was a senator with a Republican president.


 I will be the president and we will get it done. That's exactly right.


 You know, under our Constitution, presidents have something called veto power. Look, he has now said repeatedly, "30 years this and 30 years that." So let me talk about my 30 years in public service. I'm very glad to do so.

Eight million kids every year have health insurance, because when I was first
lady I worked with Democrats and Republicans to create the Children's Health
Insurance Program. Hundreds of thousands of kids now have a chance to be
adopted because I worked to change our adoption and foster care system. After
9/11, I went to work with Republican mayor, governor and president to rebuild
New York and to get health care for our first responders who were suffering
because they had run toward danger and gotten sickened by it. Hundreds of
thousands of National Guard and Reserve members have health care because of
work that I did, and children have safer medicines because I was able to pass
a law that required the dosing to be more carefully done.

When I was secretary of state, I went around the world advocating for our
country, but also advocating for women's rights, to make sure that women had a
decent chance to have a better life and negotiated a treaty with Russia to
lower nuclear weapons. Four hundred pieces of legislation have my name on it
as a sponsor or cosponsor when I was a senator for eight years.

I worked very hard and was very proud to be re-elected in New York by an even
bigger margin than I had been elected the first time. And as president, I will
take that work, that bipartisan work, that finding common ground, because you
have to be able to get along with people to get things done in Washington.


 I've proven that I can, and for 30 years, I've produced results for people.


 Well, the situation in Syria is catastrophic. And every day that goes by, we see the results of the regime by Assad in partnership with the Iranians on the ground, the Russians in the air, bombarding places, in particular Aleppo, where there are hundreds of thousands of people, probably about 250,000 still left. And there is a determined effort by the Russian air force to destroy Aleppo in order to eliminate the last of the Syrian rebels who are really holding out against the Assad regime.

Russia hasn't paid any attention to ISIS. They're interested in keeping Assad
in power. So I, when I was secretary of state, advocated and I advocate today
a no-fly zone and safe zones. We need some leverage with the Russians, because
they are not going to come to the negotiating table for a diplomatic
resolution, unless there is some leverage over them. And we have to work more
closely with our partners and allies on the ground.

But I want to emphasize that what is at stake here is the ambitions and the
aggressiveness of Russia. Russia has decided that it's all in, in Syria. And
they've also decided who they want to see become president of the United
States, too, and it's not me. I've stood up to Russia. I've taken on Putin and
others, and I would do that as president.

I think wherever we can cooperate with Russia, that's fine. And I did as
secretary of state. That's how we got a treaty reducing nuclear weapons. It's
how we got the sanctions on Iran that put a lid on the Iranian nuclear program
without firing a single shot. So I would go to the negotiating table with more
leverage than we have now. But I do support the effort to investigate for
crimes, war crimes committed by the Syrians and the Russians and try to hold
them accountable.


 No, I wasn't. I was gone. I hate to interrupt you, but at some point...


 At some point, we need to do some fact-checking here.


 I would not use American ground forces in Syria. I think that would be a very serious mistake. I don't think American troops should be holding territory, which is what they would have to do as an occupying force. I don't think that is a smart strategy.

I do think the use of special forces, which we're using, the use of enablers
and trainers in Iraq, which has had some positive effects, are very much in
our interests, and so I do support what is happening, but let me just...


 Well, Martha, I hope that by the time I—if I'm fortunate...


 I hope by the time I am president that we will have pushed ISIS out of Iraq. I do think that there is a good chance that we can take Mosul. And, you know, Donald says he knows more about ISIS than the generals. No, he doesn't.

There are a lot of very important planning going on, and some of it is to
signal to the Sunnis in the area, as well as Kurdish Peshmerga fighters, that
we all need to be in this. And that takes a lot of planning and preparation.

I would go after Baghdadi. I would specifically target Baghdadi, because I
think our targeting of Al Qaida leaders—and I was involved in a lot of those
operations, highly classified ones—made a difference. So I think that could
help.

I would also consider arming the Kurds. The Kurds have been our best partners
in Syria, as well as Iraq. And I know there's a lot of concern about that in
some circles, but I think they should have the equipment they need so that
Kurdish and Arab fighters on the ground are the principal way that we take
Raqqa after pushing ISIS out of Iraq.


 Well, 67 percent of the people voted to re-elect me when I ran for my second term, and I was very proud and very humbled by that.

Mr. Carter, I have tried my entire life to do what I can to support children
and families. You know, right out of law school, I went to work for the
Children's Defense Fund. And Donald talks a lot about, you know, the 30 years
I've been in public service. I'm proud of that. You know, I started off as a
young lawyer working against discrimination against African-American children
in schools and in the criminal justice system. I worked to make sure that kids
with disabilities could get a public education, something that I care very
much about. I have worked with Latinos—one of my first jobs in politics was
down in south Texas registering Latino citizens to be able to vote. So I have
a deep devotion, to use your absolutely correct word, to making sure that an
every American feels like he or she has a place in our country.

And I think when you look at the letters that I get, a lot of people are
worried that maybe they wouldn't have a place in Donald Trump's America. They
write me, and one woman wrote me about her son, Felix. She adopted him from
Ethiopia when he was a toddler. He's 10 years old now. This is the only one
country he's ever known. And he listens to Donald on TV and he said to his
mother one day, will he send me back to Ethiopia if he gets elected?

You know, children listen to what is being said. To go back to the very, very
first question. And there's a lot of fear—in fact, teachers and parents are
calling it the Trump effect. Bullying is up. A lot of people are feeling, you
know, uneasy. A lot of kids are expressing their concerns.

So, first and foremost, I will do everything I can to reach out to everybody.


 Democrats, Republicans, independents, people across our country. If you don't vote for me, I still want to be your president.


 I want to be the best president I can be for every American.


 Well, within hours I said that I was sorry about the way I talked about that, because my argument is not with his supporters. It's with him and with the hateful and divisive campaign that he has run, and the inciting of violence at his rallies, and the very brutal kinds of comments about not just women, but all Americans, all kinds of Americans.

And what he has said about African-Americans and Latinos, about Muslims, about
POWs, about immigrants, about people with disabilities, he's never apologized
for. And so I do think that a lot of the tone and tenor that he has said—I'm
proud of the campaign that Bernie Sanders and I ran. We ran a campaign based
on issues, not insults. And he is supporting me 100 percent.


 Because we talked about what we wanted to do. We might have had some differences, and we had a lot of debates...


 No.


 Well, it's not only my opinion. It's the opinion of many others, national security experts, Republicans, former Republican members of Congress. But it's in part because those of us who have had the great privilege of seeing this job up close and know how difficult it is, and it's not just because I watched my husband take a $300 billion deficit and turn it into a $200 billion surplus, and 23 million new jobs were created, and incomes went up for everybody. Everybody. African-American incomes went up 33 percent.

And it's not just because I worked with George W. Bush after 9/11, and I was
very proud that when I told him what the city needed, what we needed to
recover, he said you've got it, and he never wavered. He stuck with me.

And I have worked and I admire President Obama. He inherited the worst
financial crisis since the Great Depression. That was a terrible time for our
country.


 Nine million people lost their jobs.


 Five million homes were lost.


 And $13 trillion in family wealth was wiped out. We are back on the right track. He would send us back into recession with his tax plans that benefit the wealthiest of Americans.


 Thank you. Well, you're right. This is one of the most important issues in this election. I want to appoint Supreme Court justices who understand the way the world really works, who have real-life experience, who have not just been in a big law firm and maybe clerked for a judge and then gotten on the bench, but, you know, maybe they tried some more cases, they actually understand what people are up against.

Because I think the current court has gone in the wrong direction. And so I
would want to see the Supreme Court reverse Citizens United and get dark,
unaccountable money out of our politics. Donald doesn't agree with that.

I would like the Supreme Court to understand that voting rights are still a
big problem in many parts of our country, that we don't always do everything
we can to make it possible for people of color and older people and young
people to be able to exercise their franchise. I want a Supreme Court that
will stick with Roe v. Wade and a woman's right to choose, and I want a
Supreme Court that will stick with marriage equality.

Now, Donald has put forth the names of some people that he would consider. And
among the ones that he has suggested are people who would reverse Roe v. Wade
and reverse marriage equality. I think that would be a terrible mistake and
would take us backwards.

I want a Supreme Court that doesn't always side with corporate interests. I
want a Supreme Court that understands because you're wealthy and you can give
more money to something doesn't mean you have any more rights or should have
any more rights than anybody else.

So I have very clear views about what I want to see to kind of change the
balance on the Supreme Court. And I regret deeply that the Senate has not done
its job and they have not permitted a vote on the person that President Obama,
a highly qualified person, they've not given him a vote to be able to be have
the full complement of nine Supreme Court justices. I think that was a
dereliction of duty.

I hope that they will see their way to doing it, but if I am so fortunate
enough as to be president, I will immediately move to make sure that we fill
that, we have nine justices that get to work on behalf of our people.


 Well...


 The question was about the Supreme Court. And I just want to quickly say, I respect the Second Amendment. But I believe there should be comprehensive background checks, and we should close the gun show loophole, and close the online loophole. 


 We have to save as many lives as we possibly can.


 And actually—well, that was very interesting. First of all, China is illegally dumping steel in the United States and Donald Trump is buying it to build his buildings, putting steelworkers and American steel plants out of business. That's something that I fought against as a senator and that I would have a trade prosecutor to make sure that we don't get taken advantage of by China on steel or anything else.

You know, because it sounds like you're in the business or you're aware of
people in the business—you know that we are now for the first time ever
energy-independent. We are not dependent upon the Middle East. But the Middle
East still controls a lot of the prices. So the price of oil has been way
down. And that has had a damaging effect on a lot of the oil companies, right?
We are, however, producing a lot of natural gas, which serves as a bridge to
more renewable fuels. And I think that's an important transition.

We've got to remain energy-independent. It gives us much more power and
freedom than to be worried about what goes on in the Middle East. We have
enough worries over there without having to worry about that.

So I have a comprehensive energy policy, but it really does include fighting
climate change, because I think that is a serious problem. And I support
moving toward more clean, renewable energy as quickly as we can, because I
think we can be the 21st century clean energy superpower and create millions
of new jobs and businesses.

But I also want to be sure that we don't leave people behind. That's why I'm
the only candidate from the very beginning of this campaign who had a plan to
help us revitalize coal country, because those coal miners and their fathers
and their grandfathers, they dug that coal out. A lot of them lost their
lives. They were injured, but they turned the lights on and they powered their
factories. I don't want to walk away from them. So we've got to do something
for them.


 But the price of coal is down worldwide. So we have to look at this comprehensively.


 And that's exactly what I have proposed. I hope you will go to HillaryClinton.com and look at my entire policy.


 Well, I certainly will, because I think that's a very fair and important question. Look, I respect his children. His children are incredibly able and devoted, and I think that says a lot about Donald. I don't agree with nearly anything else he says or does, but I do respect that. And I think that is something that as a mother and a grandmother is very important to me.

So I believe that this election has become in part so—so conflict-oriented, so
intense because there's a lot at stake. This is not an ordinary time, and this
is not an ordinary election. We are going to be choosing a president who will
set policy for not just four or eight years, but because of some of the
important decisions we have to make here at home and around the world, from
the Supreme Court to energy and so much else, and so there is a lot at stake.
It's one of the most consequential elections that we've had.

And that's why I've tried to put forth specific policies and plans, trying to
get it off of the personal and put it on to what it is I want to do as
president. And that's why I hope people will check on that for themselves so
that they can see that, yes, I've spent 30 years, actually maybe a little
more, working to help kids and families. And I want to take all that
experience to the White House and do that every single day.


 Thank you very much, Chris. And thanks to UNLV for hosting us.

You know, I think when we talk about the Supreme Court, it really raises the
central issue in this election, namely, what kind of country are we going to
be? What kind of opportunities will we provide for our citizens? What kind of
rights will Americans have?

And I feel strongly that the Supreme Court needs to stand on the side of the
American people, not on the side of the powerful corporations and the wealthy.
For me, that means that we need a Supreme Court that will stand up on behalf
of women's rights, on behalf of the rights of the LGBT community, that will
stand up and say no to Citizens United, a decision that has undermined the
election system in our country because of the way it permits dark,
unaccountable money to come into our electoral system.

I have major disagreements with my opponent about these issues and others that
will be before the Supreme Court. But I feel that at this point in our
country's history, it is important that we not reverse marriage equality, that
we not reverse Roe v. Wade, that we stand up against Citizens United, we stand
up for the rights of people in the workplace, that we stand up and basically
say: The Supreme Court should represent all of us.

That's how I see the court, and the kind of people that I would be looking to
nominate to the court would be in the great tradition of standing up to the
powerful, standing up on behalf of our rights as Americans.

And I look forward to having that opportunity. I would hope that the Senate
would do its job and confirm the nominee that President Obama has sent to
them. That's the way the Constitution fundamentally should operate. The
president nominates, and then the Senate advises and consents, or not, but
they go forward with the process.


 Well, first of all, I support the Second Amendment. I lived in Arkansas for 18 wonderful years. I represented upstate New York. I understand and respect the tradition of gun ownership. It goes back to the founding of our country.

But I also believe that there can be and must be reasonable regulation.
Because I support the Second Amendment doesn't mean that I want people who
shouldn't have guns to be able to threaten you, kill you or members of your
family.

And so when I think about what we need to do, we have 33,000 people a year who
die from guns. I think we need comprehensive background checks, need to close
the online loophole, close the gun show loophole. There's other matters that I
think are sensible that are the kind of reforms that would make a difference
that are not in any way conflicting with the Second Amendment.

You mentioned the Heller decision. And what I was saying that you referenced,
Chris, was that I disagreed with the way the court applied the Second
Amendment in that case, because what the District of Columbia was trying to do
was to protect toddlers from guns and so they wanted people with guns to
safely store them. And the court didn't accept that reasonable regulation, but
they've accepted many others. So I see no conflict between saving people's
lives and defending the Second Amendment.


 Well, I was upset because, unfortunately, dozens of toddlers injure themselves, even kill people with guns, because, unfortunately, not everyone who has loaded guns in their homes takes appropriate precautions.

But there's no doubt that I respect the Second Amendment, that I also believe
there's an individual right to bear arms. That is not in conflict with
sensible, commonsense regulation.

And, you know, look, I understand that Donald's been strongly supported by the
NRA. The gun lobby's on his side. They're running millions of dollars of ads
against me. And I regret that, because what I would like to see is for people
to come together and say: Of course we're going to protect and defend the
Second Amendment. But we're going to do it in a way that tries to save some of
these 33,000 lives that we lose every year.


 Well, I strongly support Roe v. Wade, which guarantees a constitutional right to a woman to make the most intimate, most difficult, in many cases, decisions about her health care that one can imagine. And in this case, it's not only about Roe v. Wade. It is about what's happening right now in America.

So many states are putting very stringent regulations on women that block them
from exercising that choice to the extent that they are defunding Planned
Parenthood, which, of course, provides all kinds of cancer screenings and
other benefits for women in our country.

Donald has said he's in favor of defunding Planned Parenthood. He even
supported shutting the government down to defund Planned Parenthood. I will
defend Planned Parenthood. I will defend Roe v. Wade, and I will defend
women's rights to make their own health care decisions.


 And we have come too far to have that turned back now. And, indeed, he said women should be punished, that there should be some form of punishment for women who obtain abortions. And I could just not be more opposed to that kind of thinking.


 Because Roe v. Wade very clearly sets out that there can be regulations on abortion so long as the life and the health of the mother are taken into account. And when I voted as a senator, I did not think that that was the case.

The kinds of cases that fall at the end of pregnancy are often the most
heartbreaking, painful decisions for families to make. I have met with women
who toward the end of their pregnancy get the worst news one could get, that
their health is in jeopardy if they continue to carry to term or that
something terrible has happened or just been discovered about the pregnancy. I
do not think the United States government should be stepping in and making
those most personal of decisions. So you can regulate if you are doing so with
the life and the health of the mother taken into account.


 Well, that is not what happens in these cases. And using that kind of scare rhetoric is just terribly unfortunate. You should meet with some of the women that I have met with, women I have known over the course of my life. This is one of the worst possible choices that any woman and her family has to make. And I do not believe the government should be making it.

You know, I've had the great honor of traveling across the world on behalf of
our country. I've been to countries where governments either forced women to
have abortions, like they used to do in China, or forced women to bear
children, like they used to do in Romania. And I can tell you: The government
has no business in the decisions that women make with their families in
accordance with their faith, with medical advice. And I will stand up for that
right.


 Well, as he was talking, I was thinking about a young girl I met here in Las Vegas, Carla, who is very worried that her parents might be deported, because she was born in this country but they were not. They work hard, they do everything they can to give her a good life.

And you're right. I don't want to rip families apart. I don't want to be
sending parents away from children. I don't want to see the deportation force
that Donald has talked about in action in our country.

We have 11 million undocumented people. They have 4 million American citizen
children, 15 million people. He said as recently as a few weeks ago in Phoenix
that every undocumented person would be subject to deportation. Now, here's
what that means. It means you would have to have a massive law enforcement
presence, where law enforcement officers would be going school to school, home
to home, business to business, rounding up people who are undocumented. And we
would then have to put them on trains, on buses to get them out of our
country.

I think that is an idea that is not in keeping with who we are as a nation. I
think it's an idea that would rip our country apart.

I have been for border security for years. I voted for border security in the
United States Senate. And my comprehensive immigration reform plan of course
includes border security. But I want to put our resources where I think
they're most needed: Getting rid of any violent person. Anybody who should be
deported, we should deport them.

When it comes to the wall that Donald talks about building, he went to Mexico,
he had a meeting with the Mexican president. Didn't even raise it. He choked
and then got into a Twitter war because the Mexican president said we're not
paying for that wall.

So I think we are both a nation of immigrants and we are a nation of laws and
that we can act accordingly. And that's why I'm introducing comprehensive
immigration reform within the first 100 days with the path to citizenship.


 I voted for border security, and there are...


 There are some limited places where that was appropriate. There also is necessarily going to be new technology and how best to deploy that.

But it is clear, when you look at what Donald has been proposing, he started
his campaign bashing immigrants, calling Mexican immigrants rapists and
criminals and drug dealers, that he has a very different view about what we
should do to deal with immigrants.

Now, what I am also arguing is that bringing undocumented immigrants out from
the shadows, putting them into the formal economy will be good, because then
employers can't exploit them and undercut Americans' wages.

And Donald knows a lot about this. He used undocumented labor to build the
Trump Tower. He underpaid undocumented workers, and when they complained, he
basically said what a lot of employers do: "You complain, I'll get you
deported."

I want to get everybody out of the shadows, get the economy working, and not
let employers like Donald exploit undocumented workers, which hurts them, but
also hurts American workers.


 We will not have open borders. That is...


 That is a rank mischaracterization.


 We will have secure borders, but we'll also have reform. And this used to be a bipartisan issue. Ronald Reagan was the last president...


 ... to sign immigration reform, and George W. Bush supported it, as well.


 Well, if you went on to read the rest of the sentence, I was talking about energy. You know, we trade more energy with our neighbors than we trade with the rest of the world combined. And I do want us to have an electric grid, an energy system that crosses borders. I think that would be a great benefit to us.

But you are very clearly quoting from WikiLeaks. And what's really important
about WikiLeaks is that the Russian government has engaged in espionage
against Americans. They have hacked American websites, American accounts of
private people, of institutions. Then they have given that information to
WikiLeaks for the purpose of putting it on the Internet.

This has come from the highest levels of the Russian government, clearly, from
Putin himself, in an effort, as 17 of our intelligence agencies have
confirmed, to influence our election.

So I actually think the most important question of this evening, Chris, is,
finally, will Donald Trump admit and condemn that the Russians are doing this
and make it clear that he will not have the help of Putin in in this election,
that he rejects Russian espionage against Americans, which he actually
encouraged in the past? Those are the questions we need answered. We've never
had anything like this happen in any of our elections before.


 Well, that's because he'd rather have a puppet as president of the United States.


 And it's pretty clear...


 It's pretty clear you won't admit...


 ... that the Russians have engaged in cyberattacks against the United States of America, that you encouraged espionage against our people, that you are willing to spout the Putin line, sign up for his wish list, break up NATO, do whatever he wants to do, and that you continue to get help from him, because he has a very clear favorite in this race.

So I think that this is such an unprecedented situation. We've never had a
foreign government trying to interfere in our election. We have 17—17
intelligence agencies, civilian and military, who have all concluded that
these espionage attacks, these cyberattacks, come from the highest levels of
the Kremlin and they are designed to influence our election. I find that
deeply disturbing.


 And I think it's time you take a stand...


 I am not quoting myself.


 I am quoting 17...


 ... 17 intelligence—do you doubt 17 military and civilian...


 ... agencies.


 Well, he'd rather believe Vladimir Putin than the military and civilian intelligence professionals who are sworn to protect us. I find that just absolutely...


 I—I find it ironic that he's raising nuclear weapons. This is a person who has been very cavalier, even casual about the use of nuclear weapons. He's...


 ... advocated more countries getting them, Japan, Korea, even Saudi Arabia. He said, well, if we have them, why don't we use them, which I think is terrifying.

But here's the deal. The bottom line on nuclear weapons is that when the
president gives the order, it must be followed. There's about four minutes
between the order being given and the people responsible for launching nuclear
weapons to do so. And that's why 10 people who have had that awesome
responsibility have come out and, in an unprecedented way, said they would not
trust Donald Trump with the nuclear codes or to have his finger on the nuclear
button.


 Well, I'm just quoting you when you were asked...


 ... about a potential nuclear—nuclear competition in Asia, you said, you know, go ahead, enjoy yourselves, folks. That kind...


 ... of language—well...


 The United States has kept the peace—the United States has kept the peace through our alliances. Donald wants to tear up our alliances. I think it makes the world safer and, frankly, it makes the United States safer. I would work with our allies in Asia, in Europe, in the Middle East, and elsewhere. That's the only way we're going to be able to keep the peace.


 Well, I think when the middle class thrives, America thrives. And so my plan is based on growing the economy, giving middle-class families many more opportunities. I want us to have the biggest jobs program since World War II, jobs in infrastructure and advanced manufacturing. I think we can compete with high-wage countries, and I believe we should. New jobs and clean energy, not only to fight climate change, which is a serious problem, but to create new opportunities and new businesses.

I want us to do more to help small business. That's where two- thirds of the
new jobs are going to come from. I want us to raise the national minimum wage,
because people who live in poverty should not—who work full-time should not
still be in poverty. And I sure do want to make sure women get equal pay for
the work we do.

I feel strongly that we have to have an education system that starts with
preschool and goes through college. That's why I want more technical education
in high schools and in community colleges, real apprenticeships to prepare
young people for the jobs of the future. I want to make college debt-free and
for families making less than $125,000, you will not get a tuition bill from a
public college or university if the plan that I worked on with Bernie Sanders
is enacted.

And we're going to work hard to make sure that it is, because we are going to
go where the money is. Most of the gains in the last years since the Great
Recession have gone to the very top. So we are going to have the wealthy pay
their fair share. We're going to have corporations make a contribution greater
than they are now to our country.

That is a plan that has been analyzed by independent experts which said that
it could produce 10 million new jobs. By contrast, Donald's plan has been
analyzed to conclude it might lose 3.5 million jobs. Why? Because his whole
plan is to cut taxes, to give the biggest tax breaks ever to the wealthy and
to corporations, adding $20 trillion to our debt, and causing the kind of
dislocation that we have seen before, because it truly will be trickle-down
economics on steroids.

So the plan I have I think will actually produce greater opportunities. The
plan he has will cost us jobs and possibly lead to another Great Recession.


 Well, let me translate that, if I can, Chris, because...


 ... the fact is, he's going to advocate for the largest tax cuts we've ever seen, three times more than the tax cuts under the Bush administration. I have said repeatedly throughout this campaign: I will not raise taxes on anyone making $250,000 or less.

I also will not add a penny to the debt. I have costed out what I'm going to
do. He will, through his massive tax cuts, add $20 trillion to the debt.

Well, he mentioned the debt. We know how to get control of the debt. When my
husband was president, we went from a $300 billion deficit to a $200 billion
surplus and we were actually on the path to eliminating the national debt.
When President Obama came into office, he inherited the worst economic
disaster since the Great Depression. He has cut the deficit by two-thirds.

So, yes, one of the ways you go after the debt, one of the ways you create
jobs is by investing in people. So I do have investments, investments in new
jobs, investments in education, skill training, and the opportunities for
people to get ahead and stay ahead. That's the kind of approach that will
work.


 Cutting taxes on the wealthy, we've tried that. It has not worked the way that it has been promised.


 Well, it's a combination, Chris. And let me say that when you inherit the level of economic catastrophe that President Obama inherited, it was a real touch-and-go situation. I was in the Senate before I became secretary of state. I've never seen people as physically distraught as the Bush administration team was because of what was happening to the economy.

I personally believe that the steps that President Obama took saved the
economy. He doesn't get the credit he deserves for taking some very hard
positions. But it was a terrible recession.

So now we've dug ourselves out of it, we're standing, but we're not yet
running. So what I am proposing is that we invest from the middle out and the
ground up, not the top down. That is not going to work.

That's why what I have put forward doesn't add a penny to the debt, but it is
the kind of approach that will enable more people to take those new jobs,
higher-paying jobs. We're beginning to see some increase in incomes, and we
certainly have had a long string of increasing jobs. We've got to do more to
get the whole economy moving, and that's what I believe I will be able to do.


 Well, first, let me say, number one, when I saw the final agreement for TPP, I said I was against it. It didn't meet my test. I've had the same test. Does it create jobs, raise incomes, and further our national security? I'm against it now. I'll be against it after the election. I'll be against it when I'm president.

There's only one of us on this stage who's actually shipped jobs to Mexico,
because that's Donald. He's shipped jobs to 12 countries, including Mexico.

But he mentioned China. And, you know, one of the biggest problems we have
with China is the illegal dumping of steel and aluminum into our markets. I
have fought against that as a senator. I've stood up against it as secretary
of state.

Donald has bought Chinese steel and aluminum. In fact, the Trump Hotel right
here in Las Vegas was made with Chinese steel. So he goes around with
crocodile tears about how terrible it is, but he has given jobs to Chinese
steelworkers, not American steelworkers.


 That's the kind of approach that is just not going to work.


 We're going to pull the country together. We're going to have trade agreements that we enforce. That's why I'm going to have a trade prosecutor for the first time in history. And we're going to enforce those agreements, and we're going to look for businesses to help us by buying American products.


 No, I voted.


 Well, first of all, what he just said about the State Department is not only untrue, it's been debunked numerous times.

But I think it's really an important issue. He raised the 30 years of
experience, so let me just talk briefly about that. You know, back in the
1970s, I worked for the Children's Defense Fund. And I was taking on
discrimination against African-American kids in schools. He was getting sued
by the Justice Department for racial discrimination in his apartment
buildings.

In the 1980s, I was working to reform the schools in Arkansas. He was
borrowing $14 million from his father to start his businesses. In the 1990s, I
went to Beijing and I said women's rights are human rights. He insulted a
former Miss Universe, Alicia Machado, called her an eating machine.


 And on the day when I was in the Situation Room, monitoring the raid that brought Osama bin Laden to justice, he was hosting the "Celebrity Apprentice." So I'm happy to compare my 30 years of experience, what I've done for this country, trying to help in every way I could, especially kids and families get ahead and stay ahead, with your 30 years, and I'll let the American people make that decision.


 Well...


 At the last debate, we heard Donald talking about what he did to women. And after that, a number of women have come forward saying that's exactly what he did to them. Now, what was his response? Well, he held a number of big rallies where he said that he could not possibly have done those things to those women because they were not attractive enough for them to be assaulted.


 In fact, he went on to say...


 He went on to say, "Look at her. I don't think so." About another woman, he said, "That wouldn't be my first choice." He attacked the woman reporter writing the story, called her "disgusting," as he has called a number of women during this campaign.

Donald thinks belittling women makes him bigger. He goes after their dignity,
their self-worth, and I don't think there is a woman anywhere who doesn't know
what that feels like. So we now know what Donald thinks and what he says and
how he acts toward women. That's who Donald is.

I think it's really up to all of us to demonstrate who we are and who our
country is, and to stand up and be very clear about what we expect from our
next president, how we want to bring our country together, where we don't want
to have the kind of pitting of people one against the other, where instead we
celebrate our diversity, we lift people up, and we make our country even
greater.

America is great, because America is good. And it really is up to all of us to
make that true, now and in the future, and particularly for our children and
our grandchildren.


 Well, every time Donald is pushed on something which is obviously uncomfortable, like what these women are saying, he immediately goes to denying responsibility. And it's not just about women. He never apologizes or says he's sorry for anything.

So we know what he has said and what he's done to women. But he also went
after a disabled reporter, mocked and mimicked him on national television.


 He went after Mr. and Mrs. Khan, the parents of a young man who died serving our country, a Gold Star family, because of their religion. He went after John McCain, a prisoner of war, said he prefers "people who aren't captured." He went after a federal judge, born in Indiana, but who Donald said couldn't be trusted to try the fraud and racketeering case against Trump University because his parents were Mexican.

So it's not one thing. This is a pattern, a pattern of divisiveness, of a very
dark and in many ways dangerous vision of our country, where he incites
violence, where he applauds people who are pushing and pulling and punching at
his rallies. That is not who America is.

And I hope that as we move in the last weeks of this campaign, more and more
people will understand what's at stake in this election. It really does come
down to what kind of country we are going to have.


 Well, everything I did as secretary of state was in furtherance of our country's interests and our values. The State Department has said that. I think that's been proven.

But I am happy, in fact I'm thrilled to talk about the Clinton Foundation,
because it is a world-renowned charity and I am so proud of the work that it
does. You know, I could talk for the rest of the debate—I know I don't have
the time to do that.

But just briefly, the Clinton Foundation made it possible for 11 million
people around the world with HIV-AIDS to afford treatment, and that's about
half all the people in the world who are getting treatment. In partnership
with the American Health Association...


 ... we have made environments in schools healthier for kids, including healthier lunches...


 Well, it is an open discussion. And you...


 Well, but there is no—but there is no evidence—but there is...


 There is a lot of evidence about the very good work...


 ... and the high rankings...


 Well, very quickly, we at the Clinton Foundation spend 90 percent—90 percent of all the money that is donated on behalf of programs of people around the world and in our own country. I'm very proud of that. We have the highest rating from the watchdogs that follow foundations. And I'd be happy to compare what we do with the Trump Foundation, which took money from other people and bought a six- foot portrait of Donald. I mean, who does that? It just was astonishing.

But when it comes to Haiti, Haiti is the poorest country in our hemisphere.
The earthquake and the hurricanes, it has devastated Haiti. Bill and I have
been involved in trying to help Haiti for many years. The Clinton Foundation
raised $30 million to help Haiti after the catastrophic earthquake and all of
the terrible problems the people there had.

We have done things to help small businesses, agriculture, and so much else.
And we're going to keep working to help Haiti...


 ... because it's an important part of the American experience.


 But, of course, there's no way we can know whether any of that is true, because he hasn't released his tax returns. He is the first candidate ever to run for president in the last 40-plus years who has not released his tax returns, so everything he says about charity or anything else, we can't prove it. You can look at our tax returns. We've got them all out there.

But what is really troubling is that we learned in the last debate he has not
paid a penny in federal income tax. And we were talking about immigrants a few
minutes ago, Chris. You know, half of all immigrants—undocumented immigrants
in our country—actually pay federal income tax. So we have undocumented
immigrants in America who are paying more federal income tax than a
billionaire. I find that just astonishing.


 Well, you know...


 Made with Chinese steel.


 Well, Chris, let me respond to that, because that's horrifying. You know, every time Donald thinks things are not going in his direction, he claims whatever it is, is rigged against him.

The FBI conducted a year-long investigation into my e-mails. They concluded
there was no case; he said the FBI was rigged. He lost the Iowa caucus. He
lost the Wisconsin primary. He said the Republican primary was rigged against
him. Then Trump University gets sued for fraud and racketeering; he claims the
court system and the federal judge is rigged against him. There was even a
time when he didn't get an Emmy for his TV program three years in a row and he
started tweeting that the Emmys were rigged against him.


 This is—this is a mindset. This is how Donald thinks. And it's funny, but it's also really troubling.


 So that is not the way our democracy works. We've been around for 240 years. We've had free and fair elections. We've accepted the outcomes when we may not have liked them. And that is what must be expected of anyone standing on a debate stage during a general election. You know, President Obama said the other day when you're whining before the game is even finished... 


 ... it just shows you're not up to doing the job. And let's—you know, let's be clear about what he is saying and what that means. He is denigrating—he's talking down our democracy. And I, for one, am appalled that somebody who is the nominee of one of our two major parties would take that kind of position.


 Well, I am encouraged that there is an effort led by the Iraqi army, supported by Kurdish forces, and also given the help and advice from the number of special forces and other Americans on the ground. But I will not support putting American soldiers into Iraq as an occupying force. I don't think that is in our interest, and I don't think that would be smart to do. In fact, Chris, I think that would be a big red flag waving for ISIS to reconstitute itself.

The goal here is to take back Mosul. It's going to be a hard fight. I've got
no illusions about that. And then continue to press into Syria to begin to
take back and move on Raqqa, which is the ISIS headquarters.

I am hopeful that the hard work that American military advisers have done will
pay off and that we will see a real—a really successful military operation.
But we know we've got lots of work to do. Syria will remain a hotbed of
terrorism as long as the civil war, aided and abetted by the Iranians and the
Russians, continue.

So I have said, look, we need to keep our eye on ISIS. That's why I want to
have an intelligence surge that protects us here at home, why we have to go
after them from the air, on the ground, online, why we have to make sure here
at home we don't let terrorists buy weapons. If you're too dangerous to fly,
you're too dangerous to buy a gun.

And I'm going to continue to push for a no-fly zone and safe havens within
Syria not only to help protect the Syrians and prevent the constant outflow of
refugees, but to, frankly, gain some leverage on both the Syrian government
and the Russians so that perhaps we can have the kind of serious negotiation
necessary to bring the conflict to an end and go forward on a political track.


 Well, you know, once again, Donald is implying that he didn't support the invasion of Iraq. I said it was a mistake. I've said that years ago. He has consistently denied what is...


 ... a very clear fact that...


 ... before the invasion, he supported it. And, you know, I just want everybody to go Google it. Google "Donald Trump Iraq." And you will see the dozens of sources which verify that he was for the invasion of Iraq.


 And you can actually hear the audio of him saying that. Now, why does that matter? Well, it matters because he has not told the truth about that position. I guess he believes it makes him look better now to contrast with me because I did vote for it.

But what's really important here is to understand all the interplay. Mosul is
a Sunni city. Mosul is on the border of Syria. And, yes, we do need to go
after Baghdadi, and—just like we went after bin Laden, while you were doing
"Celebrity Apprentice," and we brought him to justice. We need to go after the
leadership.

But we need to get rid of them, get rid of their fighters. There are an
estimated several thousand fighters in Mosul. They've been digging
underground. They've been prepared to defend. It's going to be tough fighting.
But I think we can take back Mosul, and then we can move on into Syria and
take back Raqqa.

This is what we have to do. I'm just amazed that he seems to think that the
Iraqi government and our allies and everybody else launched the attack on
Mosul to help me in this election, but that's how Donald thinks. You know, he
always is looking for some conspiracy.


 He has all the conspiracy theories...


 This conspiracy theory, which he's been spewing out for quite some time.


 He says...


 ... unfit, and he proves it every time he talks.


 Well, you should ask Bernie Sanders who he's supporting for president. And he has said...


 ... as he has campaigned for me around the country, you are the most dangerous person to run for president in the modern history of America. I think he's right.


 Well, Chris, first of all, I think a no-fly zone could save lives and could hasten the end of the conflict. I'm well aware of the really legitimate concerns that you have expressed from both the president and the general.

This would not be done just on the first day. This would take a lot of
negotiation. And it would also take making it clear to the Russians and the
Syrians that our purpose here was to provide safe zones on the ground.

We've had millions of people leave Syria and those millions of people inside
Syria who have been dislocated. So I think we could strike a deal and make it
very clear to the Russians and the Syrians that this was something that we
believe was in the best interests of the people on the ground in Syria, it
would help us with our fight against ISIS.

But I want to respond to what Donald said about refugees. He's made these
claims repeatedly. I am not going to let anyone into this country who is not
vetted, who we do not have confidence in. But I am not going to slam the door
on women and children. That picture of that little 4-year-old boy in Aleppo,
with the blood coming down his face while he sat in an ambulance, is haunting.
And so we are going to do very careful, thorough vetting. That does not solve
our internal challenges with ISIS and our need to stop radicalization, to work
with American Muslim communities who are on the front lines to identify and
prevent attacks. In fact, the killer of the dozens of people at the nightclub
in Orlando, the Pulse nightclub, was born in Queens, the same place Donald was
born. So let's be clear about what the threat is and how we are best going to
be able to meet it.

And, yes, some of that threat emanates from over in Syria and Iraq, and we've
got to keep fighting, and I will defeat ISIS, and some of it is we have to up
our game and be much smarter here at home.


 Well, first, when I hear Donald talk like that and know that his slogan is "Make America Great Again," I wonder when he thought America was great. And before he rushes and says, "You know, before you and President Obama were there," I think it's important to recognize that he has been criticizing our government for decades.

You know, back in 1987, he took out a $100,000 ad in the New York Times,
during the time when President Reagan was president, and basically said
exactly what he just said now, that we were the laughingstock of the world. He
was criticizing President Reagan. This is the way Donald thinks about himself,
puts himself into, you know, the middle and says, "You know, I alone can fix
it," as he said on the convention stage.

But if you look at the debt, which is the issue you asked about, Chris, I pay
for everything I'm proposing. I do not add a penny to the national debt. I
take that very seriously, because I do think it's one of the issues we've got
to come to grips with.

So when I talk about how we're going to pay for education, how we're going to
invest in infrastructure, how we're going to get the cost of prescription
drugs down, and a lot of the other issues that people talk to me about all the
time, I've made it very clear we are going where the money is. We are going to
ask the wealthy and corporations to pay their fair share.

And there is no evidence whatsoever that that will slow down or diminish our
growth. In fact, I think just the opposite. We'll have what economists call
middle-out growth. We've got to get back to rebuilding the middle class, the
families of America. That's where growth will come from. That's why I want to
invest in you. I want to invest in your family.

And I think that's the smartest way to grow the economy, to make the economy
fairer. And we just have a big disagreement about this. It may be because of
our experiences. You know, he started off with his dad as a millionaire...


 I started off with—my dad was a small-business man.


 And I think it—you know, it's a difference that affects how we see the world and what we want to do with the economy.


 Well, Chris, I am on record as saying that we need to put more money into the Social Security Trust Fund. That's part of my commitment to raise taxes on the wealthy. My Social Security payroll contribution will go up, as will Donald's, assuming he can't figure out how to get out of it. But what we want to do is to replenish the Social Security Trust Fund...


 ... by making sure that we have sufficient resources, and that will come from either raising the cap and/or finding other ways to get more money into it. I will not cut benefits. I want to enhance benefits for low-income workers and for women who have been disadvantaged by the current Social Security system.

But what Donald is proposing with these massive tax cuts will result in a $20
trillion additional national debt. That will have dire consequences for Social
Security and Medicare.

And I'll say something about the Affordable Care Act, which he wants to
repeal. The Affordable Care Act extended the solvency of the Medicare Trust
Fund. So if repeals it, our Medicare problem gets worse. What we need to do is
go after...


 ... the long-term health care drivers. We've got to get costs down, increase value, emphasize wellness. I have a plan for doing that. And I think that we will be able to get entitlement spending under control by with more resources and harder decisions.


 Well, I would like to say to everyone watching tonight that I'm reaching out to all Americans—Democrats, Republicans, and independents—because we need everybody to help make our country what it should be, to grow the economy, to make it fairer, to make it work for everyone. We need your talents, your skills, your commitments, your energy, your ambition.

You know, I've been privileged to see the presidency up close. And I know the
awesome responsibility of protecting our country and the incredible
opportunity of working to try to make life better for all of you. I have made
the cause of children and families really my life's work.

That's what my mission will be in the presidency. I will stand up for families
against powerful interests, against corporations. I will do everything that I
can to make sure that you have good jobs, with rising incomes, that your kids
have good educations from preschool through college. I hope you will give me a
chance to serve as your president.


