 Thank you, Lester. Our jobs are fleeing the country. They're going to Mexico. They're going to many other countries. You look at what China is doing to our country in terms of making our product. They're devaluing their currency, and there's nobody in our government to fight them. And we have a very good fight. And we have a winning fight. Because they're using our country as a piggy bank to rebuild China, and many other countries are doing the same thing.

So we're losing our good jobs, so many of them. When you look at what's
happening in Mexico, a friend of mine who builds plants said it's the eighth
wonder of the world. They're building some of the biggest plants anywhere in
the world, some of the most sophisticated, some of the best plants. With the
United States, as he said, not so much.

So Ford is leaving. You see that, their small car division leaving. Thousands
of jobs leaving Michigan, leaving Ohio. They're all leaving. And we can't
allow it to happen anymore. As far as child care is concerned and so many
other things, I think Hillary and I agree on that. We probably disagree a
little bit as to numbers and amounts and what we're going to do, but perhaps
we'll be talking about that later.

But we have to stop our jobs from being stolen from us. We have to stop our
companies from leaving the United States and, with it, firing all of their
people. All you have to do is take a look at Carrier air conditioning in
Indianapolis. They left—fired 1,400 people. They're going to Mexico. So many
hundreds and hundreds of companies are doing this.

We cannot let it happen. Under my plan, I'll be reducing taxes tremendously,
from 35 percent to 15 percent for companies, small and big businesses. That's
going to be a job creator like we haven't seen since Ronald Reagan. It's going
to be a beautiful thing to watch.

Companies will come. They will build. They will expand. New companies will
start. And I look very, very much forward to doing it. We have to renegotiate
our trade deals, and we have to stop these countries from stealing our
companies and our jobs.


 Well, for one thing—and before we start on that—my father gave me a very small loan in 1975, and I built it into a company that's worth many, many billions of dollars, with some of the greatest assets in the world, and I say that only because that's the kind of thinking that our country needs.

Our country's in deep trouble. We don't know what we're doing when it comes to
devaluations and all of these countries all over the world, especially China.
They're the best, the best ever at it. What they're doing to us is a very,
very sad thing.

So we have to do that. We have to renegotiate our trade deals. And, Lester,
they're taking our jobs, they're giving incentives, they're doing things that,
frankly, we don't do.

Let me give you the example of Mexico. They have a VAT tax. We're on a
different system. When we sell into Mexico, there's a tax. When they sell
in—automatic, 16 percent, approximately. When they sell into us, there's no
tax. It's a defective agreement. It's been defective for a long time, many
years, but the politicians haven't done anything about it.

Now, in all fairness to Secretary Clinton—yes, is that OK? Good. I want you to
be very happy. It's very important to me.

But in all fairness to Secretary Clinton, when she started talking about this,
it was really very recently. She's been doing this for 30 years. And why
hasn't she made the agreements better? The NAFTA agreement is defective. Just
because of the tax and many other reasons, but just because of the fact...


 Secretary Clinton and others, politicians, should have been doing this for years, not right now, because of the fact that we've created a movement. They should have been doing this for years. What's happened to our jobs and our country and our economy generally is—look, we owe $20 trillion. We cannot do it any longer, Lester.


 Well, the first thing you do is don't let the jobs leave. The companies are leaving. I could name, I mean, there are thousands of them. They're leaving, and they're leaving in bigger numbers than ever.

And what you do is you say, fine, you want to go to Mexico or some other
country, good luck. We wish you a lot of luck. But if you think you're going
to make your air conditioners or your cars or your cookies or whatever you
make and bring them into our country without a tax, you're wrong.

And once you say you're going to have to tax them coming in, and our
politicians never do this, because they have special interests and the special
interests want those companies to leave, because in many cases, they own the
companies. So what I'm saying is, we can stop them from leaving. We have to
stop them from leaving. And that's a big, big factor.


 That's called business, by the way.


 I did not. I did not. I do not say that.


 I do not say that.


 She talks about solar panels. We invested in a solar company, our country. That was a disaster. They lost plenty of money on that one.

Now, look, I'm a great believer in all forms of energy, but we're putting a
lot of people out of work. Our energy policies are a disaster. Our country is
losing so much in terms of energy, in terms of paying off our debt. You can't
do what you're looking to do with $20 trillion in debt.

The Obama administration, from the time they've come in, is over 230 years'
worth of debt, and he's topped it. He's doubled it in a course of almost eight
years, seven-and-a-half years, to be semi- exact.

So I will tell you this. We have to do a much better job at keeping our jobs.
And we have to do a much better job at giving companies incentives to build
new companies or to expand, because they're not doing it.

And all you have to do is look at Michigan and look at Ohio and look at all of
these places where so many of their jobs and their companies are just leaving,
they're gone.

And, Hillary, I'd just ask you this. You've been doing this for 30 years. Why
are you just thinking about these solutions right now? For 30 years, you've
been doing it, and now you're just starting to think of solutions.


 I will bring—excuse me. I will bring back jobs. You can't bring back jobs.


 Yeah, for 30 years.


 Well, he approved NAFTA...




 He approved NAFTA, which is the single worst trade deal ever approved in this country.


 But you haven't done it in 30 years or 26 years or any number you want to...


 You haven't done it. You haven't done it.


 Excuse me.


 Your husband signed NAFTA, which was one of the worst things that ever happened to the manufacturing industry.


 You go to New England, you go to Ohio, Pennsylvania, you go anywhere you want, Secretary Clinton, and you will see devastation where manufacture is down 30, 40, sometimes 50 percent. NAFTA is the worst trade deal maybe ever signed anywhere, but certainly ever signed in this country.

And now you want to approve Trans-Pacific Partnership. You were totally in
favor of it. Then you heard what I was saying, how bad it is, and you said, I
can't win that debate. But you know that if you did win, you would approve
that, and that will be almost as bad as NAFTA. Nothing will ever top NAFTA.


 You called it the gold standard.




 You called it the gold standard of trade deals. You said it's the finest deal you've ever seen.


 And then you heard what I said about it, and all of a sudden you were against it.


 Not.


 So is it President Obama's fault?


 Is it President Obama's fault?


 Secretary, is it President Obama's fault?


 Because he's pushing it.


 But you have no plan.


 Secretary, you have no plan.


 That's about all you've...




 You are going to approve one of the biggest tax cuts in history. You are going to approve one of the biggest tax increases in history. You are going to drive business out. Your regulations are a disaster, and you're going to increase regulations all over the place.

And by the way, my tax cut is the biggest since Ronald Reagan. I'm very proud
of it. It will create tremendous numbers of new jobs. But regulations, you are
going to regulate these businesses out of existence.

When I go around—Lester, I tell you this, I've been all over. And when I go
around, despite the tax cut, the thing—the things that business as in people
like the most is the fact that I'm cutting regulation. You have regulations on
top of regulations, and new companies cannot form and old companies are going
out of business. And you want to increase the regulations and make them even
worse.

I'm going to cut regulations. I'm going to cut taxes big league, and you're
going to raise taxes big league, end of story.


 Facts.


 And take a look at mine, also, and you'll see.


 Well, could I just finish—I think I...




 I think I should—you go to her website, and you take a look at her website.


 She's going to raise taxes $1.3 trillion.


 And look at her website. You know what? It's no difference than this. She's telling us how to fight ISIS. Just go to her website. She tells you how to fight ISIS on her website. I don't think General Douglas MacArthur would like that too much.


 No, no, you're telling the enemy everything you want to do.


 See, you're telling the enemy everything you want to do. No wonder you've been fighting—no wonder you've been fighting ISIS your entire adult life.


 Well, I'm really calling for major jobs, because the wealthy are going create tremendous jobs. They're going to expand their companies. They're going to do a tremendous job.

I'm getting rid of the carried interest provision. And if you really look,
it's not a tax—it's really not a great thing for the wealthy. It's a great
thing for the middle class. It's a great thing for companies to expand.

And when these people are going to put billions and billions of dollars into
companies, and when they're going to bring $2.5 trillion back from overseas,
where they can't bring the money back, because politicians like Secretary
Clinton won't allow them to bring the money back, because the taxes are so
onerous, and the bureaucratic red tape, so what—is so bad.

So what they're doing is they're leaving our country, and they're, believe it
or not, leaving because taxes are too high and because some of them have lots
of money outside of our country. And instead of bringing it back and putting
the money to work, because they can't work out a deal to—and everybody agrees
it should be brought back.

Instead of that, they're leaving our country to get their money, because they
can't bring their money back into our country, because of bureaucratic red
tape, because they can't get together. Because we have—we have a president
that can't sit them around a table and get them to approve something.

And here's the thing. Republicans and Democrats agree that this should be
done, $2.5 trillion. I happen to think it's double that. It's probably $5
trillion that we can't bring into our country, Lester. And with a little
leadership, you'd get it in here very quickly, and it could be put to use on
the inner cities and lots of other things, and it would be beautiful.

But we have no leadership. And honestly, that starts with Secretary Clinton.


 Why not?


 There's nothing crazy about not letting our companies bring their money back into their country.


 Yes.


 Then you didn't read it.


 Who gave it that name? The first I've—who gave it that name?




 How much? How much for my family? 


 Lester, how much?


 Typical politician. All talk, no action. Sounds good, doesn't work. Never going to happen. Our country is suffering because people like Secretary Clinton have made such bad decisions in terms of our jobs and in terms of what's going on.

Now, look, we have the worst revival of an economy since the Great Depression.
And believe me: We're in a bubble right now. And the only thing that looks
good is the stock market, but if you raise interest rates even a little bit,
that's going to come crashing down.

We are in a big, fat, ugly bubble. And we better be awfully careful. And we
have a Fed that's doing political things. This Janet Yellen of the Fed. The
Fed is doing political—by keeping the interest rates at this level. And
believe me: The day Obama goes off, and he leaves, and goes out to the golf
course for the rest of his life to play golf, when they raise interest rates,
you're going to see some very bad things happen, because the Fed is not doing
their job. The Fed is being more political than Secretary Clinton.


 I don't mind releasing—I'm under a routine audit. And it'll be released. And—as soon as the audit's finished, it will be released.

But you will learn more about Donald Trump by going down to the federal
elections, where I filed a 104-page essentially financial statement of sorts,
the forms that they have. It shows income—in fact, the income—I just looked
today—the income is filed at $694 million for this past year, $694 million. If
you would have told me I was going to make that 15 or 20 years ago, I would
have been very surprised.

But that's the kind of thinking that our country needs. When we have a country
that's doing so badly, that's being ripped off by every single country in the
world, it's the kind of thinking that our country needs, because
everybody—Lester, we have a trade deficit with all of the countries that we do
business with, of almost $800 billion a year. You know what that is? That
means, who's negotiating these trade deals?

We have people that are political hacks negotiating our trade deals.


 Excuse me.


 Well, I told you, I will release them as soon as the audit. Look, I've been under audit almost for 15 years. I know a lot of wealthy people that have never been audited. I said, do you get audited? I get audited almost every year.

And in a way, I should be complaining. I'm not even complaining. I don't mind
it. It's almost become a way of life. I get audited by the IRS. But other
people don't.

I will say this. We have a situation in this country that has to be taken care
of. I will release my tax returns—against my lawyer's wishes—when she releases
her 33,000 e-mails that have been deleted. As soon as she releases them, I
will release. 

I will release my tax returns. And that's against—my lawyers, they say, "Don't
do it." I will tell you this. No—in fact, watching shows, they're reading the
papers. Almost every lawyer says, you don't release your returns until the
audit's complete. When the audit's complete, I'll do it. But I would go
against them if she releases her e-mails.


 It's not negotiable, no. Let her release the e-mails. Why did she delete 33,000...


 That makes me smart.


 That's for sure.


 That was more than a mistake. That was done purposely. OK? That was not a mistake. That was done purposely. When you have your staff taking the Fifth Amendment, taking the Fifth so they're not prosecuted, when you have the man that set up the illegal server taking the Fifth, I think it's disgraceful. And believe me, this country thinks it's—really thinks it's disgraceful, also.

As far as my tax returns, you don't learn that much from tax returns. That I
can tell you. You learn a lot from financial disclosure. And you should go
down and take a look at that.

The other thing, I'm extremely underleveraged. The report that said
$650—which, by the way, a lot of friends of mine that know my business say,
boy, that's really not a lot of money. It's not a lot of money relative to
what I had.

The buildings that were in question, they said in the same report, which
was—actually, it wasn't even a bad story, to be honest with you, but the
buildings are worth $3.9 billion. And the $650 isn't even on that. But it's
not $650. It's much less than that.

But I could give you a list of banks, I would—if that would help you, I would
give you a list of banks. These are very fine institutions, very fine banks. I
could do that very quickly.

I am very underleveraged. I have a great company. I have a tremendous income.
And the reason I say that is not in a braggadocios way. It's because it's
about time that this country had somebody running it that has an idea about
money.

When we have $20 trillion in debt, and our country's a mess, you know, it's
one thing to have $20 trillion in debt and our roads are good and our bridges
are good and everything's in great shape, our airports. Our airports are like
from a third world country.

You land at LaGuardia, you land at Kennedy, you land at LAX, you land at
Newark, and you come in from Dubai and Qatar and you see these incredible—you
come in from China, you see these incredible airports, and you land—we've
become a third world country.

So the worst of all things has happened. We owe $20 trillion, and we're a
mess. We haven't even started. And we've spent $6 trillion in the Middle East,
according to a report that I just saw. Whether it's 6 or 5, but it looks like
it's 6, $6 trillion in the Middle East, we could have rebuilt our country
twice.

And it's really a shame. And it's politicians like Secretary Clinton that have
caused this problem. Our country has tremendous problems. We're a debtor
nation. We're a serious debtor nation. And we have a country that needs new
roads, new tunnels, new bridges, new airports, new schools, new hospitals. And
we don't have the money, because it's been squandered on so many of your
ideas.


 It would be squandered, too, believe me.


 Maybe he didn't do a good job and I was unsatisfied with his work...


 Which our country should do, too.


 Wrong. Wrong.


 So, yeah, I think—I do think it's time. Look, it's all words, it's all sound bites. I built an unbelievable company. Some of the greatest assets anywhere in the world, real estate assets anywhere in the world, beyond the United States, in Europe, lots of different places. It's an unbelievable company.

But on occasion, four times, we used certain laws that are there. And when
Secretary Clinton talks about people that didn't get paid, first of all, they
did get paid a lot, but taken advantage of the laws of the nation.

Now, if you want to change the laws, you've been there a long time, change the
laws. But I take advantage of the laws of the nation because I'm running a
company. My obligation right now is to do well for myself, my family, my
employees, for my companies. And that's what I do.

But what she doesn't say is that tens of thousands of people that are
unbelievably happy and that love me. I'll give you an example. We're just
opening up on Pennsylvania Avenue right next to the White House, so if I don't
get there one way, I'm going to get to Pennsylvania Avenue another.

But we're opening the Old Post Office. Under budget, ahead of schedule, saved
tremendous money. I'm a year ahead of schedule. And that's what this country
should be doing.

We build roads and they cost two and three and four times what they're
supposed to cost. We buy products for our military and they come in at costs
that are so far above what they were supposed to be, because we don't have
people that know what they're doing.

When we look at the budget, the budget is bad to a large extent because we
have people that have no idea as to what to do and how to buy. The Trump
International is way under budget and way ahead of schedule. And we should be
able to do that for our country.


 Well, first of all, Secretary Clinton doesn't want to use a couple of words, and that's law and order. And we need law and order. If we don't have it, we're not going to have a country.

And when I look at what's going on in Charlotte, a city I love, a city where I
have investments, when I look at what's going on throughout various parts of
our country, whether it's—I mean, I can just keep naming them all day long—we
need law and order in our country.

I just got today the, as you know, the endorsement of the Fraternal Order of
Police, we just—just came in. We have endorsements from, I think, almost every
police group, very—I mean, a large percentage of them in the United States.

We have a situation where we have our inner cities, African- Americans,
Hispanics are living in he'll because it's so dangerous. You walk down the
street, you get shot.

In Chicago, they've had thousands of shootings, thousands since January 1st.
Thousands of shootings. And I'm saying, where is this? Is this a war-torn
country? What are we doing? And we have to stop the violence. We have to bring
back law and order. In a place like Chicago, where thousands of people have
been killed, thousands over the last number of years, in fact, almost 4,000
have been killed since Barack Obama became president, over—almost 4,000 people
in Chicago have been killed. We have to bring back law and order.

Now, whether or not in a place like Chicago you do stop and frisk, which
worked very well, Mayor Giuliani is here, worked very well in New York. It
brought the crime rate way down. But you take the gun away from criminals that
shouldn't be having it.

We have gangs roaming the street. And in many cases, they're illegally here,
illegal immigrants. And they have guns. And they shoot people. And we have to
be very strong. And we have to be very vigilant.

We have to be—we have to know what we're doing. Right now, our police, in many
cases, are afraid to do anything. We have to protect our inner cities, because
African-American communities are being decimated by crime, decimated.


 No, you're wrong. It went before a judge, who was a very against-police judge. It was taken away from her. And our mayor, our new mayor, refused to go forward with the case. They would have won an appeal. If you look at it, throughout the country, there are many places where it's allowed.


 No, the argument is that we have to take the guns away from these people that have them and they are bad people that shouldn't have them.

These are felons. These are people that are bad people that shouldn't be—when
you have 3,000 shootings in Chicago from January 1st, when you have 4,000
people killed in Chicago by guns, from the beginning of the presidency of
Barack Obama, his hometown, you have to have stop-and-frisk.

You need more police. You need a better community, you know, relation. You
don't have good community relations in Chicago. It's terrible. I have property
there. It's terrible what's going on in Chicago.

But when you look—and Chicago's not the only—you go to Ferguson, you go to so
many different places. You need better relationships. I agree with Secretary
Clinton on this.

You need better relationships between the communities and the police, because
in some cases, it's not good.

But you look at Dallas, where the relationships were really studied, the
relationships were really a beautiful thing, and then five police officers
were killed one night very violently. So there's some bad things going on.
Some really bad things.


 But we need—Lester, we need law and order. And we need law and order in the inner cities, because the people that are most affected by what's happening are African-American and Hispanic people. And it's very unfair to them what our politicians are allowing to happen.


 Ugh.


 I'd like to respond to that.


 First of all, I agree, and a lot of people even within my own party want to give certain rights to people on watch lists and no- fly lists. I agree with you. When a person is on a watch list or a no-fly list, and I have the endorsement of the NRA, which I'm very proud of. These are very, very good people, and they're protecting the Second Amendment.

But I think we have to look very strongly at no-fly lists and watch lists. And
when people are on there, even if they shouldn't be on there, we'll help them,
we'll help them legally, we'll help them get off. But I tend to agree with
that quite strongly.

I do want to bring up the fact that you were the one that brought up the words
super-predator about young black youth. And that's a term that I think was
a—it's—it's been horribly met, as you know. I think you've apologized for it.
But I think it was a terrible thing to say.

And when it comes to stop-and-frisk, you know, you're talking about takes guns
away. Well, I'm talking about taking guns away from gangs and people that use
them. And I don't think—I really don't think you disagree with me on this, if
you want to know the truth.

I think maybe there's a political reason why you can't say it, but I really
don't believe—in New York City, stop-and-frisk, we had 2,200 murders, and
stop-and-frisk brought it down to 500 murders. Five hundred murders is a lot
of murders. It's hard to believe, 500 is like supposed to be good?

But we went from 2,200 to 500. And it was continued on by Mayor Bloomberg. And
it was terminated by current mayor. But stop-and- frisk had a tremendous
impact on the safety of New York City. Tremendous beyond belief. So when you
say it has no impact, it really did. It had a very, very big impact.


 No, you're wrong. You're wrong.


 Murders are up. All right. You check it.


 I'd like to just respond, if I might.


 I'd just like to respond.


 I will. Look, the African-American community has been let down by our politicians. They talk good around election time, like right now, and after the election, they said, see ya later, I'll see you in four years.

The African-American community—because—look, the community within the inner
cities has been so badly treated. They've been abused and used in order to get
votes by Democrat politicians, because that's what it is. They've controlled
these communities for up to 100 years.


 And I will tell you, you look at the inner cities—and I just left Detroit, and I just left Philadelphia, and I just—you know, you've seen me, I've been all over the place. You decided to stay home, and that's OK. But I will tell you, I've been all over. And I've met some of the greatest people I'll ever meet within these communities. And they are very, very upset with what their politicians have told them and what their politicians have done.


 I'll tell you very—well, just very simple to say. Sidney Blumenthal works for the campaign and close—very close friend of Secretary Clinton. And her campaign manager, Patti Doyle, went to—during the campaign, her campaign against President Obama, fought very hard. And you can go look it up, and you can check it out.

And if you look at CNN this past week, Patti Solis Doyle was on Wolf Blitzer
saying that this happened. Blumenthal sent McClatchy, highly respected
reporter at McClatchy, to Kenya to find out about it. They were pressing it
very hard. She failed to get the birth certificate.

When I got involved, I didn't fail. I got him to give the birth certificate.
So I'm satisfied with it. And I'll tell you why I'm satisfied with it.


 Because I want to get on to defeating ISIS, because I want to get on to creating jobs, because I want to get on to having a strong border, because I want to get on to things that are very important to me and that are very important to the country.


 Yeah.


 Well, nobody was pressing it, nobody was caring much about it. I figured you'd ask the question tonight, of course. But nobody was caring much about it. But I was the one that got him to produce the birth certificate. And I think I did a good job.

Secretary Clinton also fought it. I mean, you know—now, everybody in
mainstream is going to say, oh, that's not true. Look, it's true. Sidney
Blumenthal sent a reporter—you just have to take a look at CNN, the last week,
the interview with your former campaign manager. And she was involved. But
just like she can't bring back jobs, she can't produce.


 Well, it was very—I say nothing. I say nothing, because I was able to get him to produce it. He should have produced it a long time before. I say nothing.

But let me just tell you. When you talk about healing, I think that I've
developed very, very good relationships over the last little while with the
African-American community. I think you can see that.

And I feel that they really wanted me to come to that conclusion. And I think
I did a great job and a great service not only for the country, but even for
the president, in getting him to produce his birth certificate.


 I would love to respond. First of all, I got to watch in preparing for this some of your debates against Barack Obama. You treated him with terrible disrespect. And I watched the way you talk now about how lovely everything is and how wonderful you are. It doesn't work that way. You were after him, you were trying to—you even sent out or your campaign sent out pictures of him in a certain garb, very famous pictures. I don't think you can deny that.

But just last week, your campaign manager said it was true. So when you tried
to act holier than thou, it really doesn't work. It really doesn't.

Now, as far as the lawsuit, yes, when I was very young, I went into my
father's company, had a real estate company in Brooklyn and Queens, and we,
along with many, many other companies throughout the country—it was a federal
lawsuit—were sued. We settled the suit with zero—with no admission of guilt.
It was very easy to do.

I notice you bring that up a lot. And, you know, I also notice the very nasty
commercials that you do on me in so many different ways, which I don't do on
you. Maybe I'm trying to save the money.

But, frankly, I look—I look at that, and I say, isn't that amazing? Because I
settled that lawsuit with no admission of guilt, but that was a lawsuit
brought against many real estate firms, and it's just one of those things.

I'll go one step further. In Palm Beach, Florida, tough community, a brilliant
community, a wealthy community, probably the wealthiest community there is in
the world, I opened a club, and really got great credit for it. No
discrimination against African- Americans, against Muslims, against anybody.
And it's a tremendously successful club. And I'm so glad I did it. And I have
been given great credit for what I did. And I'm very, very proud of it. And
that's the way I feel. That is the true way I feel.


 I do want to say that I was just endorsed—and more are coming next week—it will be over 200 admirals, many of them here—admirals and generals endorsed me to lead this country. That just happened, and many more are coming. And I'm very proud of it.

In addition, I was just endorsed by ICE. They've never endorsed anybody before
on immigration. I was just endorsed by ICE. I was just recently
endorsed—16,500 Border Patrol agents.

So when Secretary Clinton talks about this, I mean, I'll take the admirals and
I'll take the generals any day over the political hacks that I see that have
led our country so brilliantly over the last 10 years with their knowledge.
OK? Because look at the mess that we're in. Look at the mess that we're in.

As far as the cyber, I agree to parts of what Secretary Clinton said. We
should be better than anybody else, and perhaps we're not. I don't think
anybody knows it was Russia that broke into the DNC. She's saying Russia,
Russia, Russia, but I don't—maybe it was. I mean, it could be Russia, but it
could also be China. It could also be lots of other people. It also could be
somebody sitting on their bed that weighs 400 pounds, OK?

You don't know who broke in to DNC.

But what did we learn with DNC? We learned that Bernie Sanders was taken
advantage of by your people, by Debbie Wasserman Schultz. Look what happened
to her. But Bernie Sanders was taken advantage of. That's what we learned.

Now, whether that was Russia, whether that was China, whether it was another
country, we don't know, because the truth is, under President Obama we've lost
control of things that we used to have control over.

We came in with the Internet, we came up with the Internet, and I think
Secretary Clinton and myself would agree very much, when you look at what ISIS
is doing with the Internet, they're beating us at our own game. ISIS.

So we have to get very, very tough on cyber and cyber warfare. It is—it is a
huge problem. I have a son. He's 10 years old. He has computers. He is so good
with these computers, it's unbelievable. The security aspect of cyber is very,
very tough. And maybe it's hardly doable.

But I will say, we are not doing the job we should be doing. But that's true
throughout our whole governmental society. We have so many things that we have
to do better, Lester, and certainly cyber is one of them.


 Well, first I have to say one thing, very important. Secretary Clinton is talking about taking out ISIS. "We will take out ISIS." Well, President Obama and Secretary Clinton created a vacuum the way they got out of Iraq, because they got out—what, they shouldn't have been in, but once they got in, the way they got out was a disaster. And ISIS was formed.

So she talks about taking them out. She's been doing it a long time. She's
been trying to take them out for a long time. But they wouldn't have even been
formed if they left some troops behind, like 10,000 or maybe something more
than that. And then you wouldn't have had them.

Or, as I've been saying for a long time, and I think you'll agree, because I
said it to you once, had we taken the oil—and we should have taken the
oil—ISIS would not have been able to form either, because the oil was their
primary source of income. And now they have the oil all over the place,
including the oil—a lot of the oil in Libya, which was another one of her
disasters.


 Wrong.


 Wrong. Wrong.


 Well, I have to respond.


 The secretary said very strongly about working with—we've been working with them for many years, and we have the greatest mess anyone's ever seen. You look at the Middle East, it's a total mess. Under your direction, to a large extent.

But you look at the Middle East, you started the Iran deal, that's another
beauty where you have a country that was ready to fall, I mean, they were
doing so badly. They were choking on the sanctions. And now they're going to
be actually probably a major power at some point pretty soon, the way they're
going.

But when you look at NATO, I was asked on a major show, what do you think of
NATO? And you have to understand, I'm a businessperson. I did really well. But
I have common sense. And I said, well, I'll tell you. I haven't given lots of
thought to NATO. But two things.

Number one, the 28 countries of NATO, many of them aren't paying their fair
share. Number two—and that bothers me, because we should be asking—we're
defending them, and they should at least be paying us what they're supposed to
be paying by treaty and contract.

And, number two, I said, and very strongly, NATO could be obsolete,
because—and I was very strong on this, and it was actually covered very
accurately in the New York Times, which is unusual for the New York Times, to
be honest—but I said, they do not focus on terror. And I was very strong. And
I said it numerous times.

And about four months ago, I read on the front page of the Wall Street Journal
that NATO is opening up a major terror division. And I think that's great. And
I think we should get—because we pay approximately 73 percent of the cost of
NATO. It's a lot of money to protect other people. But I'm all for NATO. But I
said they have to focus on terror, also.

And they're going to do that. And that was—believe me—I'm sure I'm not going
to get credit for it—but that was largely because of what I was saying and my
criticism of NATO.

I think we have to get NATO to go into the Middle East with us, in addition to
surrounding nations, and we have to knock the hell out of ISIS, and we have to
do it fast, when ISIS formed in this vacuum created by Barack Obama and
Secretary Clinton. And believe me, you were the ones that took out the troops.
Not only that, you named the day. They couldn't believe it. They sat back
probably and said, I can't believe it. They said...


 No, wait a minute.


 When they formed, when they formed, this is something that never should have happened. It should have never happened. Now, you're talking about taking out ISIS. But you were there, and you were secretary of state when it was a little infant. Now it's in over 30 countries. And you're going to stop them? I don't think so.


 I did not support the war in Iraq.


 That is a mainstream media nonsense put out by her, because she—frankly, I think the best person in her campaign is mainstream media.


 Just—would you like to hear...


 Wait a minute. I was against the war in Iraq. Just so you put it out.


 The record does not show that.


 The record shows that I'm right. When I did an interview with Howard Stern, very lightly, first time anyone's asked me that, I said, very lightly, I don't know, maybe, who knows? Essentially. I then did an interview with Neil Cavuto. We talked about the economy is more important. I then spoke to Sean Hannity, which everybody refuses to call Sean Hannity. I had numerous conversations with Sean Hannity at Fox. And Sean Hannity said—and he called me the other day—and I spoke to him about it—he said you were totally against the war, because he was for the war.


 And when he—excuse me. And that was before the war started. Sean Hannity said very strongly to me and other people—he's willing to say it, but nobody wants to call him. I was against the war. He said, you used to have fights with me, because Sean was in favor of the war.

And I understand that side, also, not very much, because we should have never
been there. But nobody called Sean Hannity. And then they did an article in a
major magazine, shortly after the war started. I think in '04. But they did an
article which had me totally against the war in Iraq.

And one of your compatriots said, you know, whether it was before or right
after, Trump was definitely—because if you read this article, there's no
doubt. But if somebody—and I'll ask the press—if somebody would call up Sean
Hannity, this was before the war started. He and I used to have arguments
about the war. I said, it's a terrible and a stupid thing. It's going to
destabilize the Middle East. And that's exactly what it's done. It's been a
disaster.


 No, no. You didn't hear what I said.


 Well, I have much better judgment than she does. There's no question about that. I also have a much better temperament than she has, you know? 

I have a much better—she spent—let me tell you—she spent hundreds of millions
of dollars on an advertising—you know, they get Madison Avenue into a room,
they put names—oh, temperament, let's go after—I think my strongest asset,
maybe by far, is my temperament. I have a winning temperament. I know how to
win. She does not have a...


 Wait. The AFL-CIO the other day, behind the blue screen, I don't know who you were talking to, Secretary Clinton, but you were totally out of control. I said, there's a person with a temperament that's got a problem.


 That would not start a war.


 No, they were taunting us.


 Wrong.


 It's lies.


 That line's getting a little bit old, I must say. I would like to...


 It's not an accurate one at all. It's not an accurate one. So I just want to give a lot of things—and just to respond. I agree with her on one thing. The single greatest problem the world has is nuclear armament, nuclear weapons, not global warming, like you think and your—your president thinks.

Nuclear is the single greatest threat. Just to go down the list, we defend
Japan, we defend Germany, we defend South Korea, we defend Saudi Arabia, we
defend countries. They do not pay us. But they should be paying us, because we
are providing tremendous service and we're losing a fortune. That's why we're
losing—we're losing—we lose on everything. I say, who makes these—we lose on
everything. All I said, that it's very possible that if they don't pay a fair
share, because this isn't 40 years ago where we could do what we're doing. We
can't defend Japan, a behemoth, selling us cars by the million...


 Well, wait, but it's very important. All I said was, they may have to defend themselves or they have to help us out. We're a country that owes $20 trillion. They have to help us out.


 As far as the nuclear is concerned, I agree. It is the single greatest threat that this country has.


 Well, I have to say that, you know, for what Secretary Clinton was saying about nuclear with Russia, she's very cavalier in the way she talks about various countries. But Russia has been expanding their—they have a much newer capability than we do. We have not been updating from the new standpoint.

I looked the other night. I was seeing B-52s, they're old enough that your
father, your grandfather could be flying them. We are not—we are not keeping
up with other countries. I would like everybody to end it, just get rid of it.
But I would certainly not do first strike.

I think that once the nuclear alternative happens, it's over. At the same
time, we have to be prepared. I can't take anything off the table. Because you
look at some of these countries, you look at North Korea, we're doing nothing
there. China should solve that problem for us. China should go into North
Korea. China is totally powerful as it relates to North Korea.

And by the way, another one powerful is the worst deal I think I've ever seen
negotiated that you started is the Iran deal. Iran is one of their biggest
trading partners. Iran has power over North Korea.

And when they made that horrible deal with Iran, they should have included the
fact that they do something with respect to North Korea. And they should have
done something with respect to Yemen and all these other places.

And when asked to Secretary Kerry, why didn't you do that? Why didn't you add
other things into the deal? One of the great giveaways of all time, of all
time, including $400 million in cash. Nobody's ever seen that before. That
turned out to be wrong. It was actually $1.7 billion in cash, obviously, I
guess for the hostages. It certainly looks that way.

So you say to yourself, why didn't they make the right deal? This is one of
the worst deals ever made by any country in history. The deal with Iran will
lead to nuclear problems. All they have to do is sit back 10 years, and they
don't have to do much.


 And they're going to end up getting nuclear. I met with Bibi Netanyahu the other day. Believe me, he's not a happy camper.


 Lester, one thing I'd like to say.


 I will go very quickly. But I will tell you that Hillary will tell you to go to her website and read all about how to defeat ISIS, which she could have defeated by never having it, you know, get going in the first place. Right now, it's getting tougher and tougher to defeat them, because they're in more and more places, more and more states, more and more nations.


 And it's a big problem. And as far as Japan is concerned, I want to help all of our allies, but we are losing billions and billions of dollars. We cannot be the policemen of the world. We cannot protect countries all over the world...


 ... where they're not paying us what we need.


 And she doesn't say that, because she's got no business ability. We need heart. We need a lot of things. But you have to have some basic ability. And sadly, she doesn't have that. All of the things that she's talking about could have been taken care of during the last 10 years, let's say, while she had great power. But they weren't taken care of. And if she ever wins this race, they won't be taken care of.


 She doesn't have the look. She doesn't have the stamina. I said she doesn't have the stamina. And I don't believe she does have the stamina. To be president of this country, you need tremendous stamina.


 You have—wait a minute. Wait a minute, Lester. You asked me a question. Did you ask me a question?

You have to be able to negotiate our trade deals. You have to be able to
negotiate, that's right, with Japan, with Saudi Arabia. I mean, can you
imagine, we're defending Saudi Arabia? And with all of the money they have,
we're defending them, and they're not paying? All you have to do is speak to
them. Wait. You have so many different things you have to be able to do, and I
don't believe that Hillary has the stamina.


 The world—let me tell you. Let me tell you. Hillary has experience, but it's bad experience. We have made so many bad deals during the last—so she's got experience, that I agree. 

But it's bad, bad experience. Whether it's the Iran deal that you're so in
love with, where we gave them $150 billion back, whether it's the Iran deal,
whether it's anything you can—name—you almost can't name a good deal. I agree.
She's got experience, but it's bad experience. And this country can't afford
to have another four years of that kind of experience.


 I never said that.


 I didn't say that.


 Where did you find this? Where did you find this?


 Where did you find this?


 Oh, really? 


 OK, good. Let me just tell you... 


 You know, Hillary is hitting me with tremendous commercials. Some of it's said in entertainment. Some of it's said—somebody who's been very vicious to me, Rosie O'Donnell, I said very tough things to her, and I think everybody would agree that she deserves it and nobody feels sorry for her.

But you want to know the truth? I was going to say something...


 ... extremely rough to Hillary, to her family, and I said to myself, "I can't do it. I just can't do it. It's inappropriate. It's not nice." But she spent hundreds of millions of dollars on negative ads on me, many of which are absolutely untrue. They're untrue. And they're misrepresentations.

And I will tell you this, Lester: It's not nice. And I don't deserve that.

But it's certainly not a nice thing that she's done. It's hundreds of millions
of ads. And the only gratifying thing is, I saw the polls come in today, and
with all of that money...


 ... $200 million is spent, and I'm either winning or tied, and I've spent practically nothing. 


 I want to make America great again. We are a nation that is seriously troubled. We're losing our jobs. People are pouring into our country.

The other day, we were deporting 800 people. And perhaps they passed the wrong
button, they pressed the wrong button, or perhaps worse than that, it was
corruption, but these people that we were going to deport for good reason
ended up becoming citizens. Ended up becoming citizens. And it was 800. And
now it turns out it might be 1,800, and they don't even know.


 Look, here's the story. I want to make America great again. I'm going to be able to do it. I don't believe Hillary will. The answer is, if she wins, I will absolutely support her. 


 Well, I actually agree with that. I agree with everything she said. I began this campaign because I was so tired of seeing such foolish things happen to our country. This is a great country. This is a great land. I've gotten to know the people of the country over the last year-and-a-half that I've been doing this as a politician. I cannot believe I'm saying that about myself, but I guess I have been a politician.

And my whole concept was to make America great again. When I watch the deals
being made, when I watch what's happening with some horrible things like
Obamacare, where your health insurance and health care is going up by numbers
that are astronomical, 68 percent, 59 percent, 71 percent, when I look at the
Iran deal and how bad a deal it is for us, it's a one-sided transaction where
we're giving back $150 billion to a terrorist state, really, the number one
terror state, we've made them a strong country from really a very weak country
just three years ago.

When I look at all of the things that I see and all of the potential that our
country has, we have such tremendous potential, whether it's in business and
trade, where we're doing so badly. Last year, we had almost $800 billion trade
deficit. In other words, trading with other countries. We had an $800 billion
deficit. It's hard to believe. Inconceivable.

You say who's making these deals? We're going the make great deals. We're
going to have a strong border. We're going to bring back law and order. Just
today, policemen was shot, two killed. And this is happening on a weekly
basis. We have to bring back respect to law enforcement. At the same time, we
have to take care of people on all sides. We need justice.

But I want to do things that haven't been done, including fixing and making
our inner cities better for the African-American citizens that are so great,
and for the Latinos, Hispanics, and I look forward to doing it. It's called
make America great again.


 No, I didn't say that at all. I don't think you understood what was—this was locker room talk. I'm not proud of it. I apologize to my family. I apologize to the American people. Certainly I'm not proud of it. But this is locker room talk.

You know, when we have a world where you have ISIS chopping off heads, where
you have—and, frankly, drowning people in steel cages, where you have wars and
horrible, horrible sights all over, where you have so many bad things
happening, this is like medieval times. We haven't seen anything like this,
the carnage all over the world.

And they look and they see. Can you imagine the people that are, frankly,
doing so well against us with ISIS? And they look at our country and they see
what's going on.

Yes, I'm very embarrassed by it. I hate it. But it's locker room talk, and
it's one of those things. I will knock the hell out of ISIS. We're going to
defeat ISIS. ISIS happened a number of years ago in a vacuum that was left
because of bad judgment. And I will tell you, I will take care of ISIS.


 And we should get on to much more important things and much bigger things.


 I have great respect for women. Nobody has more respect for women than I do.


 I've said things that, frankly, you hear these things I said. And I was embarrassed by it. But I have tremendous respect for women.


 And women have respect for me. And I will tell you: No, I have not. And I will tell you that I'm going to make our country safe. We're going to have borders in our country, which we don't have now. People are pouring into our country, and they're coming in from the Middle East and other places.

We're going to make America safe again. We're going to make America great
again, but we're going to make America safe again. And we're going to make
America wealthy again, because if you don't do that, it just—it sounds harsh
to say, but we have to build up the wealth of our nation.


 Right now, other nations are taking our jobs and they're taking our wealth.


 And that's what I want to talk about.


 Am I allowed to respond to that? I assume I am.


 It's just words, folks. It's just words. Those words, I've been hearing them for many years. I heard them when they were running for the Senate in New York, where Hillary was going to bring back jobs to upstate New York and she failed.

I've heard them where Hillary is constantly talking about the inner cities of
our country, which are a disaster education-wise, jobwise, safety-wise, in
every way possible. I'm going to help the African-Americans. I'm going to help
the Latinos, Hispanics. I am going to help the inner cities.

She's done a terrible job for the African-Americans. She wants their vote, and
she does nothing, and then she comes back four years later. We saw that
firsthand when she was United States senator. She campaigned where the primary
part of her campaign...


 So, she's allowed to do that, but I'm not allowed to respond?


 Sounds fair.


 It was locker room talk, as I told you. That was locker room talk. I'm not proud of it. I am a person who has great respect for people, for my family, for the people of this country. And certainly, I'm not proud of it. But that was something that happened.

If you look at Bill Clinton, far worse. Mine are words, and his was action.
His was what he's done to women. There's never been anybody in the history
politics in this nation that's been so abusive to women. So you can say any
way you want to say it, but Bill Clinton was abusive to women.

Hillary Clinton attacked those same women and attacked them viciously. Four of
them here tonight. One of the women, who is a wonderful woman, at 12 years
old, was raped at 12. Her client she represented got him off, and she's seen
laughing on two separate occasions, laughing at the girl who was raped. Kathy
Shelton, that young woman is here with us tonight.

So don't tell me about words. I am absolutely—I apologize for those words. But
it is things that people say. But what President Clinton did, he was
impeached, he lost his license to practice law. He had to pay an $850,000 fine
to one of the women. Paula Jones, who's also here tonight.

And I will tell you that when Hillary brings up a point like that and she
talks about words that I said 11 years ago, I think it's disgraceful, and I
think she should be ashamed of herself, if you want to know the truth.



 Well, you owe the president an apology, because as you know very well, your campaign, Sidney Blumenthal—he's another real winner that you have—and he's the one that got this started, along with your campaign manager, and they were on television just two weeks ago, she was, saying exactly that. So you really owe him an apology. You're the one that sent the pictures around your campaign, sent the pictures around with President Obama in a certain garb. That was long before I was ever involved, so you actually owe an apology.

Number two, Michelle Obama. I've gotten to see the commercials that they did
on you. And I've gotten to see some of the most vicious commercials I've ever
seen of Michelle Obama talking about you, Hillary.

So, you talk about friend? Go back and take a look at those commercials, a
race where you lost fair and square, unlike the Bernie Sanders race, where you
won, but not fair and square, in my opinion. And all you have to do is take a
look at WikiLeaks and just see what they say about Bernie Sanders and see what
Deborah Wasserman Schultz had in mind, because Bernie Sanders, between super-
delegates and Deborah Wasserman Schultz, he never had a chance. And I was so
surprised to see him sign on with the devil.

But when you talk about apology, I think the one that you should really be
apologizing for and the thing that you should be apologizing for are the
33,000 e-mails that you deleted, and that you acid washed, and then the two
boxes of e-mails and other things last week that were taken from an office and
are now missing.

And I'll tell you what. I didn't think I'd say this, but I'm going to say it,
and I hate to say it. But if I win, I am going to instruct my attorney general
to get a special prosecutor to look into your situation, because there has
never been so many lies, so much deception. There has never been anything like
it, and we're going to have a special prosecutor.

When I speak, I go out and speak, the people of this country are furious. In
my opinion, the people that have been long-term workers at the FBI are
furious. There has never been anything like this, where e-mails—and you get a
subpoena, you get a subpoena, and after getting the subpoena, you delete
33,000 e-mails, and then you acid wash them or bleach them, as you would say,
very expensive process.

So we're going to get a special prosecutor, and we're going to look into it,
because you know what? People have been—their lives have been destroyed for
doing one-fifth of what you've done. And it's a disgrace. And honestly, you
ought to be ashamed of yourself.


 Oh, really?


 Because you'd be in jail. 


 And yet she didn't know the word—the letter C on a document. Right? She didn't even know what that word—what that letter meant.

You know, it's amazing. I'm watching Hillary go over facts. And she's going
after fact after fact, and she's lying again, because she said she—you know,
what she did with the e-mail was fine. You think it was fine to delete 33,000
e-mails? I don't think so.

She said the 33,000 e-mails had to do with her daughter's wedding, number one,
and a yoga class. Well, maybe we'll give three or three or four or five or
something. 33,000 e-mails deleted, and now she's saying there wasn't anything
wrong.

And more importantly, that was after getting a subpoena. That wasn't before.
That was after. She got it from the United States Congress. And I'll be
honest, I am so disappointed in congressmen, including Republicans, for
allowing this to happen.

Our Justice Department, where our husband goes on to the back of a airplane
for 39 minutes, talks to the attorney general days before a ruling is going to
be made on her case. But for you to say that there was nothing wrong with you
deleting 39,000 e-mails, again, you should be ashamed of yourself. What you
did—and this is after getting a subpoena from the United States Congress.


 You did that. Wait a minute. One second.


 If you did that in the private sector, you'd be put in jail, let alone after getting a subpoena from the United States Congress.


 Oh, you didn't delete them?


 Oh, 33,000? Yeah.


 Oh, yeah. What about the other 15,000?


 Because you have nothing to say.


 Get off this question.


 Let's see what happens...


 I'd like to know, Anderson, why aren't you bringing up the e-mails? I'd like to know. Why aren't you bringing...


 No, it hasn't. It hasn't. And it hasn't been finished at all.


 It's nice to—one on three.


 No, I'm a gentlemen, Hillary. Go ahead. 


 It is such a great question and it's maybe the question I get almost more than anything else, outside of defense. Obamacare is a disaster. You know it. We all know it. It's going up at numbers that nobody's ever seen worldwide. Nobody's ever seen numbers like this for health care.

It's only getting worse. In '17, it implodes by itself. Their method of fixing
it is to go back and ask Congress for more money, more and more money. We have
right now almost $20 trillion in debt.

Obamacare will never work. It's very bad, very bad health insurance. Far too
expensive. And not only expensive for the person that has it, unbelievably
expensive for our country. It's going to be one of the biggest line items very
shortly.

We have to repeal it and replace it with something absolutely much less
expensive and something that works, where your plan can actually be tailored.
We have to get rid of the lines around the state, artificial lines, where we
stop insurance companies from coming in and competing, because they want—and
President Obama and whoever was working on it—they want to leave those lines,
because that gives the insurance companies essentially monopolies. We want
competition.

You will have the finest health care plan there is. She wants to go to a
single-payer plan, which would be a disaster, somewhat similar to Canada. And
if you haven't noticed the Canadians, when they need a big operation, when
something happens, they come into the United States in many cases because
their system is so slow. It's catastrophic in certain ways.

But she wants to go to single payer, which means the government basically
rules everything. Hillary Clinton has been after this for years. Obamacare was
the first step. Obamacare is a total disaster. And not only are your rates
going up by numbers that nobody's ever believed, but your deductibles are
going up, so that unless you get hit by a truck, you're never going to be able
to use it.


 It is a disastrous plan, and it has to be repealed and replaced.


 Well, I just want—just one thing. First of all, Hillary, everything's broken about it. Everything. Number two, Bernie Sanders said that Hillary Clinton has very bad judgment. This is a perfect example of it, trying to save Obamacare, which is a disaster.


 By the way...


 We're going to be able to. You're going to have plans...


 Well, I'll tell you what it means. You're going to have plans that are so good, because we're going to have so much competition in the insurance industry. Once we break out—once we break out the lines and allow the competition to come...


 President Obama—Anderson, excuse me. President Obama, by keeping those lines, the boundary lines around each state, it was almost gone until just very toward the end of the passage of Obamacare, which, by the way, was a fraud. You know that, because Jonathan Gruber, the architect of Obamacare, was said—he said it was a great lie, it was a big lie. President Obama said you keep your doctor, you keep your plan. The whole thing was a fraud, and it doesn't work.

But when we get rid of those lines, you will have competition, and we will be
able to keep pre-existing, we'll also be able to help people that can't
get—don't have money because we are going to have people protected.

And Republicans feel this way, believe it or not, and strongly this way. We're
going to block grant into the states. We're going to block grant into Medicaid
into the states...


 ... so that we will be able to take care of people without the necessary funds to take care of themselves.


 Well, you're right about Islamophobia, and that's a shame. But one thing we have to do is we have to make sure that—because there is a problem. I mean, whether we like it or not, and we could be very politically correct, but whether we like it or not, there is a problem. And we have to be sure that Muslims come in and report when they see something going on. When they see hatred going on, they have to report it.

As an example, in San Bernardino, many people saw the bombs all over the
apartment of the two people that killed 14 and wounded many, many people.
Horribly wounded. They'll never be the same. Muslims have to report the
problems when they see them.

And, you know, there's always a reason for everything. If they don't do that,
it's a very difficult situation for our country, because you look at Orlando
and you look at San Bernardino and you look at the World Trade Center. Go
outside. Look at Paris. Look at that horrible—these are radical Islamic
terrorists.

And she won't even mention the word and nor will President Obama. He won't use
the term "radical Islamic terrorism." Now, to solve a problem, you have to be
able to state what the problem is or at least say the name. She won't say the
name and President Obama won't say the name. But the name is there. It's
radical Islamic terror. And before you solve it, you have to say the name.


 First of all, Captain Khan is an American hero, and if I were president at that time, he would be alive today, because unlike her, who voted for the war without knowing what she was doing, I would not have had our people in Iraq. Iraq was disaster. So he would have been alive today.

The Muslim ban is something that in some form has morphed into a extreme
vetting from certain areas of the world. Hillary Clinton wants to allow
hundreds of thousands—excuse me. Excuse me..


 Why don't you interrupt her? You interrupt me all the time.


 Why don't you interrupt her?


 It's called extreme vetting. We are going to areas like Syria where they're coming in by the tens of thousands because of Barack Obama. And Hillary Clinton wants to allow a 550 percent increase over Obama. People are coming into our country like we have no idea who they are, where they are from, what their feelings about our country is, and she wants 550 percent more. This is going to be the great Trojan horse of all time.

We have enough problems in this country. I believe in building safe zones. I
believe in having other people pay for them, as an example, the Gulf states,
who are not carrying their weight, but they have nothing but money, and take
care of people. But I don't want to have, with all the problems this country
has and all of the problems that you see going on, hundreds of thousands of
people coming in from Syria when we know nothing about them. We know nothing
about their values and we know nothing about their love for our country.


 That's not been debunked.


 That has not been debunked.


 I was against—I was against the war in Iraq. Has not been debunked. And you voted for it. And you shouldn't have. Well, I just want to say...


 Excuse me. She just went about 25 seconds over her time.


 Could I just respond to this, please?


 Hillary Clinton, in terms of having people come into our country, we have many criminal illegal aliens. When we want to send them back to their country, their country says we don't want them. In some cases, they're murderers, drug lords, drug problems. And they don't want them.

And Hillary Clinton, when she was secretary of state, said that's OK, we can't
force it into their country. Let me tell you, I'm going to force them right
back into their country. They're murderers and some very bad people.

And I will tell you very strongly, when Bernie Sanders said she had bad
judgment, she has really bad judgment, because we are letting people into this
country that are going to cause problems and crime like you've never seen.
We're also letting drugs pour through our southern border at a record clip. At
a record clip. And it shouldn't be allowed to happen.

ICE just endorsed me. They've never endorsed a presidential candidate. The
Border Patrol agents, 16,500, just recently endorsed me, and they endorsed me
because I understand the border. She doesn't. She wants amnesty for everybody.
Come right in. Come right over. It's a horrible thing she's doing. She's got
bad judgment, and honestly, so bad that she should never be president of the
United States. That I can tell you.


 Well, I think I should respond, because—so ridiculous. Look, now she's blaming—she got caught in a total lie. Her papers went out to all her friends at the banks, Goldman Sachs and everybody else, and she said things—WikiLeaks that just came out. And she lied. Now she's blaming the lie on the late, great Abraham Lincoln. That's one that I haven't...

OK, Honest Abe, Honest Abe never lied. That's the good thing. That's the big
difference between Abraham Lincoln and you. That's a big, big difference.
We're talking about some difference.

But as far as other elements of what she was saying, I don't know Putin. I
think it would be great if we got along with Russia because we could fight
ISIS together, as an example. But I don't know Putin.

But I notice, anytime anything wrong happens, they like to say the Russians
are—she doesn't know if it's the Russians doing the hacking. Maybe there is no
hacking. But they always blame Russia. And the reason they blame Russia
because they think they're trying to tarnish me with Russia. I know nothing
about Russia. I know—I know about Russia, but I know nothing about the inner
workings of Russia. I don't deal there. I have no businesses there. I have no
loans from Russia.

I have a very, very great balance sheet, so great that when I did the Old Post
Office on Pennsylvania Avenue, the United States government, because of my
balance sheet, which they actually know very well, chose me to do the Old Post
Office, between the White House and Congress, chose me to do the Old Post
Office. One of the primary area things, in fact, perhaps the primary thing was
balance sheet. But I have no loans with Russia. You could go to the United
States government, and they would probably tell you that, because they know my
sheet very well in order to get that development I had to have.

Now, the taxes are a very simple thing. As soon as I have—first of all, I pay
hundreds of millions of dollars in taxes. Many of her friends took bigger
deductions. Warren Buffett took a massive deduction. Soros, who's a friend of
hers, took a massive deduction. Many of the people that are giving her all
this money that she can do many more commercials than me gave her—took massive
deductions.

I pay hundreds of millions of dollars in taxes. But—but as soon as my routine
audit is finished, I'll release my returns. I'll be very proud to. They're
actually quite great.


 Well, one thing I'd do is get rid of carried interest. One of the greatest provisions for people like me, to be honest with you, I give up a lot when I run, because I knock out the tax code. And she could have done this years ago, by the way. She's a United States—she was a United States senator.

She complains that Donald Trump took advantage of the tax code. Well, why
didn't she change it? Why didn't you change it when you were a senator? The
reason you didn't is that all your friends take the same advantage that I do.
And I do. You have provisions in the tax code that, frankly, we could change.
But you wouldn't change it, because all of these people gave you the money so
you can take negative ads on Donald Trump.

But—and I say that about a lot of things. You know, I've heard Hillary
complaining about so many different things over the years. "I wish you would
have done this." But she's been there for 30 years she's been doing this
stuff. She never changed. And she never will change. She never will change.

We're getting rid of carried interest provisions. I'm lowering taxes actually,
because I think it's so important for corporations, because we have
corporations leaving—massive corporations and little ones, little ones can't
form. We're getting rid of regulations which goes hand in hand with the
lowering of the taxes.

But we're bringing the tax rate down from 35 percent to 15 percent. We're
cutting taxes for the middle class. And I will tell you, we are cutting them
big league for the middle class.

And I will tell you, Hillary Clinton is raising your taxes, folks. You can
look at me. She's raising your taxes really high. And what that's going to do
is a disaster for the country. But she is raising your taxes and I'm lowering
your taxes. That in itself is a big difference. We are going to be thriving
again. We have no growth in this country. There's no growth. If China has a
GDP of 7 percent, it's like a national catastrophe. We're down at 1 percent.
And that's, like, no growth. And we're going lower, in my opinion. And a lot
of it has to do with the fact that our taxes are so high, just about the
highest in the world. And I'm bringing them down to one of the lower in the
world. And I think it's so important—one of the most important things we can
do. But she is raising everybody's taxes massively.


 Of course I do. Of course I do. And so do all of her donors, or most of her donors. I know many of her donors. Her donors took massive tax write-offs.


 A lot of my—excuse me, Anderson—a lot of my write- off was depreciation and other things that Hillary as a senator allowed. And she'll always allow it, because the people that give her all this money, they want it. That's why.

See, I understand the tax code better than anybody that's ever run for
president. Hillary Clinton—and it's extremely complex—Hillary Clinton has
friends that want all of these provisions, including they want the carried
interest provision, which is very important to Wall Street people. But they
really want the carried interest provision, which I believe Hillary's leaving.
Very interesting why she's leaving carried interest.

But I will tell you that, number one, I pay tremendous numbers of taxes. I
absolutely used it. And so did Warren Buffett and so did George Soros and so
did many of the other people that Hillary is getting money from. Now, I won't
mention their names, because they're rich, but they're not famous. So we won't
make them famous.


 No, but I pay tax, and I pay federal tax, too. But I have a write-off, a lot of it's depreciation, which is a wonderful charge. I love depreciation. You know, she's given it to us.

Hey, if she had a problem—for 30 years she's been doing this, Anderson. I say
it all the time. She talks about health care. Why didn't she do something
about it? She talks about taxes. Why didn't she do something about it? She
doesn't do anything about anything other than talk. With her, it's all talk
and no action.


 And, again, Bernie Sanders, it's really bad judgment. She has made bad judgment not only on taxes. She's made bad judgments on Libya, on Syria, on Iraq. I mean, her and Obama, whether you like it or not, the way they got out of Iraq, the vacuum they've left, that's why ISIS formed in the first place. They started from that little area, and now they're in 32 different nations, Hillary. Congratulations. Great job.


 Why didn't you do it? Why didn't you do it?


 Oh, really?


 You could have done it, if you were an effective—if you were an effective senator, you could have done it. If you were an effective senator, you could have done it. But you were not an effective senator.


 She said a lot of things that were false. I mean, I think we should be allowed to maybe...


 Excuse me. Because she has been a disaster as a senator. A disaster.


 First of all, she was there as secretary of state with the so-called line in the sand, which...


 OK. But you were in contact—excuse me. You were...


 You were in total contact with the White House, and perhaps, sadly, Obama probably still listened to you. I don't think he would be listening to you very much anymore.

Obama draws the line in the sand. It was laughed at all over the world what
happened.

Now, with that being said, she talks tough against Russia. But our nuclear
program has fallen way behind, and they've gone wild with their nuclear
program. Not good. Our government shouldn't have allowed that to happen.
Russia is new in terms of nuclear. We are old. We're tired. We're exhausted in
terms of nuclear. A very bad thing.

Now, she talks tough, she talks really tough against Putin and against Assad.
She talks in favor of the rebels. She doesn't even know who the rebels are.
You know, every time we take rebels, whether it's in Iraq or anywhere else,
we're arming people. And you know what happens? They end up being worse than
the people.

Look at what she did in Libya with Gadhafi. Gadhafi's out. It's a mess. And,
by the way, ISIS has a good chunk of their oil. I'm sure you probably have
heard that. It was a disaster. Because the fact is, almost everything she's
done in foreign policy has been a mistake and it's been a disaster.

But if you look at Russia, just take a look at Russia, and look at what they
did this week, where I agree, she wasn't there, but possibly she's consulted.
We sign a peace treaty. Everyone's all excited. Well, what Russia did with
Assad and, by the way, with Iran, who you made very powerful with the dumbest
deal perhaps I've ever seen in the history of deal-making, the Iran deal, with
the $150 billion, with the $1.7 billion in cash, which is enough to fill up
this room.

But look at that deal. Iran now and Russia are now against us. So she wants to
fight. She wants to fight for rebels. There's only one problem. You don't even
know who the rebels are. So what's the purpose?


 And one thing I have to say.


 I don't like Assad at all, but Assad is killing ISIS. Russia is killing ISIS. And Iran is killing ISIS. And those three have now lined up because of our weak foreign policy.


 OK. He and I haven't spoken, and I disagree. I disagree.


 I think you have to knock out ISIS. Right now, Syria is fighting ISIS. We have people that want to fight both at the same time. But Syria is no longer Syria. Syria is Russia and it's Iran, who she made strong and Kerry and Obama made into a very powerful nation and a very rich nation, very, very quickly, very, very quickly.

I believe we have to get ISIS. We have to worry about ISIS before we can get
too much more involved. She had a chance to do something with Syria. They had
a chance. And that was the line. And she didn't.


 I think Aleppo is a disaster, humanitarian-wise.


 I think that it basically has fallen. OK? It basically has fallen. Let me tell you something. You take a look at Mosul. The biggest problem I have with the stupidity of our foreign policy, we have Mosul. They think a lot of the ISIS leaders are in Mosul. So we have announcements coming out of Washington and coming out of Iraq, we will be attacking Mosul in three weeks or four weeks.

Well, all of these bad leaders from ISIS are leaving Mosul. Why can't they do
it quietly? Why can't they do the attack, make it a sneak attack, and after
the attack is made, inform the American public that we've knocked out the
leaders, we've had a tremendous success? People leave. Why do they have to say
we're going to be attacking Mosul within the next four to six weeks, which is
what they're saying? How stupid is our country?


 I can't think of any. I can't think of any. And I'm pretty good at it.


 And we have General Flynn. And we have—look, I have 200 generals and admirals who endorsed me. I have 21 Congressional Medal of Honor recipients who endorsed me. We talk about it all the time. They understand, why can't they do something secretively, where they go in and they knock out the leadership? How—why would these people stay there? I've been reading now...


 ... for weeks—I've been reading now for weeks about Mosul, that it's the harbor of where—you know, between Raqqa and Mosul, this is where they think the ISIS leaders are. Why would they be saying—they're not staying there anymore. They're gone. Because everybody's talking about how Iraq, which is us with our leadership, goes in to fight Mosul.

Now, with these 200 admirals and generals, they can't believe it. All I say is
this. General George Patton, General Douglas MacArthur are spinning in their
grave at the stupidity of what we're doing in the Middle East.


 Everything.


 You know what's funny? She went over a minute over, and you don't stop her. When I go one second over, it's like a big deal.


 It's really—it's really very interesting.


 Absolutely. I mean, she calls our people deplorable, a large group, and irredeemable. I will be a president for all of our people. And I'll be a president that will turn our inner cities around and will give strength to people and will give economics to people and will bring jobs back.

Because NAFTA, signed by her husband, is perhaps the greatest disaster trade
deal in the history of the world. Not in this country. It stripped us of
manufacturing jobs. We lost our jobs. We lost our money. We lost our plants.
It is a disaster. And now she wants to sign TPP, even though she says now
she's for it. She called it the gold standard. And by the way, at the last
debate, she lied, because it turned out that she did say the gold standard and
she said she didn't say it. They actually said that she lied. OK? And she
lied. But she's lied about a lot of things.

I would be a president for all of the people, African-Americans, the inner
cities. Devastating what's happening to our inner cities. She's been talking
about it for years. As usual, she talks about it, nothing happens. She doesn't
get it done.

Same with the Latino Americans, the Hispanic Americans. The same exact thing.
They talk, they don't get it done. You go into the inner cities and—you see
it's 45 percent poverty. African- Americans now 45 percent poverty in the
inner cities. The education is a disaster. Jobs are essentially nonexistent.

I mean, it's—you know, and I've been saying at big speeches where I have
20,000 and 30,000 people, what do you have to lose? It can't get any worse.
And she's been talking about the inner cities for 25 years. Nothing's going to
ever happen.

Let me tell you, if she's president of the United States, nothing's going to
happen. It's just going to be talk. And all of her friends, the taxes we were
talking about, and I would just get it by osmosis. She's not doing any me
favors. But by doing all the others' favors, she's doing me favors.


 But I will tell you, she's all talk. It doesn't get done. All you have to do is take a look at her Senate run. Take a look at upstate New York.


 It turned out to be a disaster.


 ... but we believed that we could make the country better. And I was proud of that.


 We have a divided nation. We have a very divided nation. You look at Charlotte. You look at Baltimore. You look at the violence that's taking place in the inner cities, Chicago, you take a look at Washington, D.C.

We have an increase in murder within our cities, the biggest in 45 years. We
have a divided nation, because people like her—and believe me, she has
tremendous hate in her heart. And when she said deplorables, she meant it. And
when she said irredeemable, they're irredeemable, you didn't mention that, but
when she said they're irredeemable, to me that might have been even worse.


 She's got tremendous—she's got tremendous hatred. And this country cannot take another four years of Barack Obama, and that's what you're getting with her.


 No, there wasn't check out a sex tape. It was just take a look at the person that she built up to be this wonderful Girl Scout who was no Girl Scout.


 By the way, just so you understand, when she said 3 o'clock in the morning, take a look at Benghazi. She said who is going to answer the call at 3 o'clock in the morning? Guess what? She didn't answer it, because when Ambassador Stevens...


 ... 600—wait a minute, Anderson, 600 times. Well, she said she was awake at 3 o'clock in the morning, and she also sent a tweet out at 3 o'clock in the morning, but I won't even mention that. But she said she'll be awake. Who's going—the famous thing, we're going to answer our call at 3 o'clock in the morning. Guess what happened? Ambassador Stevens—Ambassador Stevens sent 600 requests for help. And the only one she talked to was Sidney Blumenthal, who's her friend and not a good guy, by the way. So, you know, she shouldn't be talking about that.

Now, tweeting happens to be a modern day form of communication. I mean, you
can like it or not like it. I have, between Facebook and Twitter, I have
almost 25 million people. It's a very effective way of communication. So you
can put it down, but it is a very effective form of communication. I'm not un-
proud of it, to be honest with you.


 I'm shocked to hear that. 


 We have the slowest growth since 1929.


 It is—our country has the slowest growth and jobs are a disaster.


 Justice Scalia, great judge, died recently. And we have a vacancy. I am looking to appoint judges very much in the mold of Justice Scalia. I'm looking for judges—and I've actually picked 20 of them so that people would see, highly respected, highly thought of, and actually very beautifully reviewed by just about everybody.

But people that will respect the Constitution of the United States. And I
think that this is so important. Also, the Second Amendment, which is totally
under siege by people like Hillary Clinton. They'll respect the Second
Amendment and what it stands for, what it represents. So important to me.

Now, Hillary mentioned something about contributions just so you understand.
So I will have in my race more than $100 million put in—of my money, meaning
I'm not taking all of this big money from all of these different corporations
like she's doing. What I ask is this.

So I'm putting in more than—by the time it's finished, I'll have more than
$100 million invested. Pretty much self-funding money. We're raising money for
the Republican Party, and we're doing tremendously on the small donations, $61
average or so.

I ask Hillary, why doesn't—she made $250 million by being in office. She used
the power of her office to make a lot of money. Why isn't she funding, not for
$100 million, but why don't you put $10 million or $20 million or $25 million
or $30 million into your own campaign?

It's $30 million less for special interests that will tell you exactly what to
do and it would really, I think, be a nice sign to the American public. Why
aren't you putting some money in? You have a lot of it. You've made a lot of
it because of the fact that you've been in office. Made a lot of it while you
were secretary of state, actually. So why aren't you putting money into your
own campaign? I'm just curious.


 Absolutely. I think it's such a great question, because energy is under siege by the Obama administration. Under absolutely siege. The EPA, Environmental Protection Agency, is killing these energy companies. And foreign companies are now coming in buying our—buying so many of our different plants and then re-jiggering the plant so that they can take care of their oil.

We are killing—absolutely killing our energy business in this country. Now,
I'm all for alternative forms of energy, including wind, including solar, et
cetera. But we need much more than wind and solar.

And you look at our miners. Hillary Clinton wants to put all the miners out of
business. There is a thing called clean coal. Coal will last for 1,000 years
in this country. Now we have natural gas and so many other things because of
technology. We have unbelievable—we have found over the last seven years, we
have found tremendous wealth right under our feet. So good. Especially when
you have $20 trillion in debt.

I will bring our energy companies back. They'll be able to compete. They'll
make money. They'll pay off our national debt. They'll pay off our tremendous
budget deficits, which are tremendous. But we are putting our energy companies
out of business. We have to bring back our workers.

You take a look at what's happening to steel and the cost of steel and China
dumping vast amounts of steel all over the United States, which essentially is
killing our steelworkers and our steel companies. We have to guard our energy
companies. We have to make it possible.

The EPA is so restrictive that they are putting our energy companies out of
business. And all you have to do is go to a great place like West Virginia or
places like Ohio, which is phenomenal, or places like Pennsylvania and you see
what they're doing to the people, miners and others in the energy business.
It's a disgrace.


 It's an absolute disgrace. 


 Well, I consider her statement about my children to be a very nice compliment. I don't know if it was meant to be a compliment, but it is a great—I'm very proud of my children. And they've done a wonderful job, and they've been wonderful, wonderful kids. So I consider that a compliment.

I will say this about Hillary. She doesn't quit. She doesn't give up. I
respect that. I tell it like it is. She's a fighter. I disagree with much of
what she's fighting for. I do disagree with her judgment in many cases. But
she does fight hard, and she doesn't quit, and she doesn't give up. And I
consider that to be a very good trait.


 Well, first of all, it's great to be with you, and thank you, everybody. The Supreme Court: It's what it's all about. Our country is so, so—it's just so imperative that we have the right justices.

Something happened recently where Justice Ginsburg made some very, very
inappropriate statements toward me and toward a tremendous number of people,
many, many millions of people that I represent. And she was forced to
apologize. And apologize she did. But these were statements that should never,
ever have been made.

We need a Supreme Court that in my opinion is going to uphold the Second
Amendment, and all amendments, but the Second Amendment, which is under
absolute siege. I believe if my opponent should win this race, which I truly
don't think will happen, we will have a Second Amendment which will be a very,
very small replica of what it is right now. But I feel that it's absolutely
important that we uphold, because of the fact that it is under such trauma.

I feel that the justices that I am going to appoint—and I've named 20 of
them—the justices that I'm going to appoint will be pro-life. They will have a
conservative bent. They will be protecting the Second Amendment. They are
great scholars in all cases, and they're people of tremendous respect. They
will interpret the Constitution the way the founders wanted it interpreted.
And I believe that's very, very important.

I don't think we should have justices appointed that decide what they want to
hear. It's all about the Constitution of—of—and so important, the Constitution
the way it was meant to be. And those are the people that I will appoint.


 Well, the D.C. vs. Heller decision was very strongly—and she was extremely angry about it. I watched. I mean, she was very, very angry when upheld. And Justice Scalia was so involved. And it was a well-crafted decision. But Hillary was extremely upset, extremely angry. And people that believe in the Second Amendment and believe in it very strongly were very upset with what she had to say.


 Well, let me just tell you before we go any further. In Chicago, which has the toughest gun laws in the United States, probably you could say by far, they have more gun violence than any other city. So we have the toughest laws, and you have tremendous gun violence.

I am a very strong supporter of the Second Amendment. And I am—I don't know if
Hillary was saying it in a sarcastic manner, but I'm very proud to have the
endorsement of the NRA. And it's the earliest endorsement they've ever given
to anybody who ran for president. So I'm very honored by all of that.

We are going to appoint justices—this is the best way to help the Second
Amendment. We are going to appoint justices that will feel very strongly about
the Second Amendment, that will not do damage to the Second Amendment.


 Right.


 Well, if that would happen, because I am pro-life, and I will be appointing pro-life judges, I would think that that will go back to the individual states.


 If they overturned it, it will go back to the states.


 Well, if we put another two or perhaps three justice on, that's really what's going to be—that will happen. And that'll happen automatically, in my opinion, because I am putting pro-life justices on the court. I will say this: It will go back to the states, and the states will then make a determination.


 Well, I think it's terrible. If you go with what Hillary is saying, in the ninth month, you can take the baby and rip the baby out of the womb of the mother just prior to the birth of the baby.

Now, you can say that that's OK and Hillary can say that that's OK. But it's
not OK with me, because based on what she's saying, and based on where she's
going, and where she's been, you can take the baby and rip the baby out of the
womb in the ninth month on the final day. And that's not acceptable.


 And, honestly, nobody has business doing what I just said, doing that, as late as one or two or three or four days prior to birth. Nobody has that.


 Well, first of all, she wants to give amnesty, which is a disaster and very unfair to all of the people that are waiting on line for many, many years. We need strong borders.

In the audience tonight, we have four mothers of—I mean, these are
unbelievable people that I've gotten to know over a period of years whose
children have been killed, brutally killed by people that came into the
country illegally. You have thousands of mothers and fathers and relatives all
over the country. They're coming in illegally. Drugs are pouring in through
the border. We have no country if we have no border.

Hillary wants to give amnesty. She wants to have open borders. The border—as
you know, the Border Patrol agents, 16,500-plus ICE last week, endorsed me.
First time they've ever endorsed a candidate. It means their job is tougher.
But they know what's going on. They know it better than anybody. They want
strong borders. They feel we have to have strong borders.

I was up in New Hampshire the other day. The biggest complaint they have—it's
with all of the problems going on in the world, many of the problems caused by
Hillary Clinton and by Barack Obama. All of the problems—the single biggest
problem is heroin that pours across our southern border. It's just pouring and
destroying their youth. It's poisoning the blood of their youth and plenty of
other people. We have to have strong borders. We have to keep the drugs out of
our country. We are—right now, we're getting the drugs, they're getting the
cash. We need strong borders. We need absolute—we cannot give amnesty.

Now, I want to build the wall. We need the wall. And the Border Patrol, ICE,
they all want the wall. We stop the drugs. We shore up the border. One of my
first acts will be to get all of the drug lords, all of the bad ones—we have
some bad, bad people in this country that have to go out. We're going to get
them out; we're going to secure the border. And once the border is secured, at
a later date, we'll make a determination as to the rest. But we have some bad
hombres here, and we're going to get them out.


 Chris, I think it's...


 I think I should respond to that. First of all, I had a very good meeting with the president of Mexico. Very nice man. We will be doing very much better with Mexico on trade deals. Believe me. The NAFTA deal signed by her husband is one of the worst deals ever made of any kind, signed by anybody. It's a disaster.

Hillary Clinton wanted the wall. Hillary Clinton fought for the wall in 2006
or thereabouts. Now, she never gets anything done, so naturally the wall
wasn't built. But Hillary Clinton wanted the wall.


 We are a country of laws. We either have—and by the way...


 Well—well, but she said one thing.


 And the wall.


 President Obama has moved millions of people out. Nobody knows about it, nobody talks about it. But under Obama, millions of people have been moved out of this country. They've been deported. She doesn't want to say that, but that's what's happened, and that's what happened big league.

As far as moving these people out and moving—we either have a country or we
don't. We're a country of laws. We either have a border or we don't.

Now, you can come back in and you can become a citizen. But it's very unfair.
We have millions of people that did it the right way. They're on line. They're
waiting. We're going to speed up the process, big league, because it's very
inefficient. But they're on line and they're waiting to become citizens.

Very unfair that somebody runs across the border, becomes a citizen, under her
plan, you have open borders. You would have a disaster on trade, and you will
have a disaster with your open borders.


 But what she doesn't say is that President Obama has deported millions and millions of people just the way it is.


 Thank you.


 That was a great pivot off the fact that she wants open borders, OK? How did we get on to Putin?


 So just to finish on the borders...


 She wants open borders. People are going to pour into our country. People are going to come in from Syria. She wants 550 percent more people than Barack Obama, and he has thousands and thousands of people. They have no idea where they come from.

And you see, we are going to stop radical Islamic terrorism in this country.
She won't even mention the words, and neither will President Obama. So I just
want to tell you, she wants open borders.

Now we can talk about Putin. I don't know Putin. He said nice things about me.
If we got along well, that would be good. If Russia and the United States got
along well and went after ISIS, that would be good.

He has no respect for her. He has no respect for our president. And I'll tell
you what: We're in very serious trouble, because we have a country with
tremendous numbers of nuclear warheads—1,800, by the way—where they expanded
and we didn't, 1,800 nuclear warheads. And she's playing chicken. Look,
Putin...


 ... from everything I see, has no respect for this person.


 No puppet. No puppet.


 You're the puppet!


 No, you're the puppet.


 She has no idea whether it's Russia, China, or anybody else.


 She has no idea.


 Hillary, you have no idea.


 And our country has no idea.


 Yeah, I doubt it. I doubt it.


 She doesn't like Putin because Putin has outsmarted her at every step of the way.


 Excuse me. Putin has outsmarted her in Syria.


 He's outsmarted her every step of the way.


 Yes, that's fine.


 By Russia or anybody else.


 Of course I condemn. Of course I—I don't know Putin. I have no idea.


 I never met Putin. This is not my best friend. But if the United States got along with Russia, wouldn't be so bad.

Let me tell you, Putin has outsmarted her and Obama at every single step of
the way. Whether it's Syria, you name it. Missiles. Take a look at the "start
up" that they signed. The Russians have said, according to many, many reports,
I can't believe they allowed us to do this. They create warheads, and we
can't. The Russians can't believe it. She has been outsmarted by Putin.

And all you have to do is look at the Middle East. They've taken over. We've
spent $6 trillion. They've taken over the Middle East. She has been outsmarted
and outplayed worse than anybody I've ever seen in any government whatsoever.


 And she always will be.


 Wrong.


 I have 200 generals...


 ... and admirals, 21 endorsing me, 21 congressional Medal of Honor recipients. As far as Japan and other countries, we are being ripped off by everybody in the—we're defending other countries. We are spending a fortune doing it. They have the bargain of the century.

All I said is, we have to renegotiate these agreements, because our country
cannot afford to defend Saudi Arabia, Japan, Germany, South Korea, and many
other places. We cannot continue to afford—she took that as saying nuclear
weapons.


 Look, she's been proven to be a liar on so many different ways. This is just another lie.


 There's no quote. You're not going to find a quote from me.


 And defend yourselves.


 And defend yourselves. I didn't say nuclear. And defend yourself.


 Yes.


 Well, first of all, before I start on my plan, her plan is going to raise taxes and even double your taxes. Her tax plan is a disaster. And she can say all she wants about college tuition. And I'm a big proponent. We're going to do a lot of things for college tuition. But the rest of the public's going to be paying for it. We will have a massive, massive tax increase under Hillary Clinton's plan.

But I'd like to start off where we left, because when I said Japan and
Germany, and I'm—not to single them out, but South Korea, these are very rich,
powerful countries. Saudi Arabia, nothing but money. We protect Saudi Arabia.
Why aren't they paying?

She immediately—when she heard this, I questioned it, and I questioned NATO.
Why aren't the NATO questioned—why aren't they paying? Because they weren't
paying.

Since I did this—this was a year ago—all of a sudden, they're paying. And I've
been given a lot—a lot of credit for it. All of a sudden, they're starting to
pay up. They have to pay up. We're protecting people, they have to pay up. And
I'm a big fan of NATO. But they have to pay up.

She comes out and said, we love our allies, we think our allies are great.
Well, it's awfully hard to get them to pay up when you have somebody saying we
think how great they are.

We have to tell Japan in a very nice way, we have to tell Germany, all of
these countries, South Korea, we have to say, you have to help us out. We
have, during his regime, during President Obama's regime, we've doubled our
national debt. We're up to $20 trillion.

So my plan—we're going to renegotiate trade deals. We're going to have a lot
of free trade. We're going to have free trade, more free trade than we have
right now. But we have horrible deals. Our jobs are being taken out by the
deal that her husband signed, NAFTA, one of the worst deals ever. Our jobs are
being sucked out of our economy.

You look at all of the places that I just left, you go to Pennsylvania, you go
to Ohio, you go to Florida, you go to any of them. You go upstate New York.
Our jobs have fled to Mexico and other places. We're bringing our jobs back.

I am going to renegotiate NAFTA. And if I can't make a great deal—then we're
going to terminate NAFTA and we're going to create new deals. We're going to
have trade, but we're going—we're going to terminate it, we're going to make a
great trade deal.

And if we can't, we're going to do it—we're going to go a separate way,
because it has been a disaster. We are going to cut taxes massively. We're
going to cut business taxes massively. They're going to start hiring people.
We're going to bring the $2.5 trillion...


 ... that's offshore back into the country. We are going to start the engine rolling again, because...


 ... right now, our country is dying at 1 percent GDP.


 You can't.


 Correct.


 Over a 10-year period.


 So I just left some high representatives of India. They're growing at 8 percent. China is growing at 7 percent. And that for them is a catastrophically low number.

We are growing—our last report came out—and it's right around the 1 percent
level. And I think it's going down. Last week, as you know, the end of last
week, they came out with an anemic jobs report. A terrible jobs report. In
fact I said, is that the last jobs report before the election? Because if it
is, I should win easily, it was so bad. The report was so bad.

Look, our country is stagnant. We've lost our jobs. We've lost our businesses.
We're not making things anymore, relatively speaking. Our product is pouring
in from China, pouring in from Vietnam, pouring in from all over the world.

I've visited so many communities. This has been such an incredible education
for me, Chris. I've gotten to know so many—I've developed so many friends over
the last year. And they cry when they see what's happened. I pass factories
that were thriving 20, 25 years ago, and because of the bill that her husband
signed and she blessed 100 percent, it is just horrible what's happened to
these people in these communities.

Now, she can say that her husband did well, but, boy, did they suffer as NAFTA
kicked in, because it didn't really kick in very much, but it kicked in after
they left. Boy, did they suffer. That was one of the worst things that's ever
been signed by our country.

Now she wants to sign Trans-Pacific Partnership. And she wants it. She lied
when she said she didn't call it the gold standard in one of the debates. She
totally lied. She did call it the gold standard. And they actually fact
checked, and they said I was right. I was so honored.


 And that will be as bad as NAFTA.


 Well, let me just say—let me just say.


 Let me ask a simple question. She's been doing this for 30 years. Why the hell didn't you do it over the last 15, 20 years?


 You were very much involved—excuse me. My turn. You were very much involved in every aspect of this country. Very much. And you do have experience. I say the one thing you have over me is experience, but it's bad experience, because what you've done has turned out badly.

For 30 years, you've been in a position to help, and if you say that I use
steel or I use something else, I—make it impossible for me to do that. I
wouldn't mind.

The problem is, you talk, but you don't get anything done, Hillary. You don't.
Just like when you ran the State Department, $6 billion was missing. How do
you miss $6 billion? You ran the State Department, $6 billion was either
stolen. They don't know. It's gone, $6 billion. If you become president, this
country is going to be in some mess. Believe me.


 Give me a break.


 Well, I think I did a much better job. I built a massive company, a great company, some of the greatest assets anywhere in the world, worth many, many billions of dollars. I started with a $1 million loan. I agree with that. It's a $1 million loan. But I built a phenomenal company.

And if we could run our country the way I've run my company, we would have a
country that you would be so proud of. You would even be proud of it.

And frankly, when you look at her real record, take a look at Syria. Take a
look at the migration. Take a look at Libya. Take a look at Iraq. She gave us
ISIS, because her and Obama created this huge vacuum, and a small group came
out of that huge vacuum because when—we should never have been in Iraq, but
once we were there, we should have never got out the way they wanted to get
out. She gave us ISIS as sure as you are sitting there. And what happened is
now ISIS is in 32 countries. And now I listen how she's going to get rid of
ISIS. She's going to get rid of nobody.


 Well, first of all, those stories have been largely debunked. Those people—I don't know those people. I have a feeling how they came. I believe it was her campaign that did it.

Just like if you look at what came out today on the clips where I was
wondering what happened with my rally in Chicago and other rallies where we
had such violence? She's the one and Obama that caused the violence. They
hired people—they paid them $1,500, and they're on tape saying be violent,
cause fights, do bad things.

I would say the only way—because those stories are all totally false, I have
to say that. And I didn't even apologize to my wife, who's sitting right here,
because I didn't do anything. I didn't know any of these—I didn't see these
women.

These women—the woman on the plane, the—I think they want either fame or her
campaign did it. And I think it's her campaign. Because what I saw what they
did, which is a criminal act, by the way, where they're telling people to go
out and start fist-fights and start violence.

And I'll tell you what, in particular in Chicago, people were hurt and people
could have been killed in that riot. And that was now all on tape, started by
her. I believe, Chris, that she got these people to step forward. If it
wasn't, they get their 10 minutes of fame. But they were all totally—it was
all fiction. It was lies, and it was fiction.


 I did not say that. I did not say that.


 I did not say that.


 Nobody has more respect for women than I do. Nobody. 

Nobody has more respect...


 And frankly, those stories have been largely debunked. And I really want to just talk about something slightly different.

She mentions this, which is all fiction, all fictionalized, probably or
possibly started by her and her very sleazy campaign. But I will tell you what
isn't fictionalized are her e-mails, where she destroyed 33,000 e-mails
criminally, criminally, after getting a subpoena from the United States
Congress.

What happened to the FBI, I don't know. We have a great general, four-star
general, today you read it in all of the papers, going to potentially serve
five years in jail for lying to the FBI. One lie. She's lied hundreds of times
to the people, to Congress, and to the FBI. He's going to probably go to jail.
This is a four-star general. And she gets away with it, and she can run for
the presidency of the United States? That's really what you should be talking
about, not fiction, where somebody wants fame or where they come out of her
crooked campaign.


 Wrong.


 So sad when she talks about violence at my rallies, and she caused the violence. It's on tape.


 The other things are false, but honestly, I'd love to talk about getting rid of ISIS, and I'd love to talk about other things...


 ... but those other charges, as she knows, are false.


 I think that it's been very well...


 It's been very well studied.


 ... and it's a criminal enterprise, and so many people know it.


 It's a criminal enterprise. Saudi Arabia giving $25 million, Qatar, all of these countries. You talk about women and women's rights? So these are people that push gays off business—off buildings. These are people that kill women and treat women horribly. And yet you take their money.

So I'd like to ask you right now, why don't you give back the money that
you've taken from certain countries that treat certain groups of people so
horribly? Why don't you give back the money? I think it would be a great
gesture.

Because she takes a tremendous amount of money. And you take a look at the
people of Haiti. I was at a little Haiti the other day in Florida. And I want
to tell you, they hate the Clintons, because what's happened in Haiti with the
Clinton Foundation is a disgrace. And you know it, and they know it, and
everybody knows it.


 They don't want you to help them anymore.




 I'd like to mention one thing. Trump Foundation, small foundation. People contribute, I contribute. The money goes 100 percent—100 percent goes to different charities, including a lot of military. I don't get anything. I don't buy boats. I don't buy planes. What happens—the money goes to them.


 No, it was—we put up the American flag. And that's it. They put up the American flag. We fought for the right in Palm Beach to put up the American flag.


 There was. There was. And, by the way...


 ... the money—the money went to Fisher House, where they build houses—the money that you're talking about went to Fisher House, where they build houses for veterans and disabled vets.


 So let me just tell you very quickly, we're entitled because of the laws that people like her passed to take massive amounts of depreciation on other charges, and we do it. And all of her donors—just about all of them—I know Buffett took hundreds of millions of dollars, Soros, George Soros, took hundreds of millions of dollars...


 Let me just explain.


 Most of her donors have done the same thing as I do.


 You know what she should have done?


 And you know, Hillary, what you should have done, you should have changed the law when you were a United States senator...


 ... because your donors and your special interests are doing the same thing as I do, except even more so.


 You should have changed the law. But you won't change the law, because you take in so much money. I mean, I sat in my apartment today on a very beautiful hotel down the street known as Trump...


 But I will tell you, I sat there...... I sat there watching ad after ad after ad, false ad. All paid for by your friends on Wall Street that gave so much money because they know you're going to protect them. And, frankly, you should have changed the laws.


 If you don't like what I did, you should have changed the laws.


 I will look at it at the time. I'm not looking at anything now. I'll look at it at the time.

What I've seen—what I've seen is so bad. First of all, the media is so
dishonest and so corrupt, and the pile-on is so amazing. The New York Times
actually wrote an article about it, but they don't even care. It's so
dishonest. And they've poisoned the mind of the voters.

But unfortunately for them, I think the voters are seeing through it. I think
they're going to see through it. We'll find out on November 8th. But I think
they're going to see through it.


 If you look—excuse me, Chris—if you look at your voter rolls, you will see millions of people that are registered to vote—millions, this isn't coming from me—this is coming from Pew Report and other places—millions of people that are registered to vote that shouldn't be registered to vote.

So let me just give you one other thing. So I talk about the corrupt media. I
talk about the millions of people—tell you one other thing. She shouldn't be
allowed to run. It's crooked—she's—she's guilty of a very, very serious crime.
She should not be allowed to run.

And just in that respect, I say it's rigged, because she should never...


 Chris, she should never have been allowed to run for the presidency based on what she did with e-mails and so many other things.


 What I'm saying is that I will tell you at the time. I'll keep you in suspense. OK?


 Should have gotten it. 


 I think what the FBI did and what the Department of Justice did, including meeting with her husband, the attorney general, in the back of an airplane on the tarmac in Arizona, I think it's disgraceful. I think it's a disgrace.


 I think we've never had a situation so bad in this country. 


 Let me tell you, Mosul is so sad. We had Mosul. But when she left, when she took everybody out, we lost Mosul. Now we're fighting again to get Mosul. The problem with Mosul and what they wanted to do is they wanted to get the leaders of ISIS who they felt were in Mosul.

About three months ago, I started reading that they want to get the leaders
and they're going to attack Mosul. Whatever happened to the element of
surprise, OK? We announce we're going after Mosul. I have been reading about
going after Mosul now for about—how long is it, Hillary, three months? These
people have all left. They've all left.

The element of surprise. Douglas MacArthur, George Patton spinning in their
graves when they see the stupidity of our country. So we're now fighting for
Mosul, that we had. All she had to do was stay there, and now we're going in
to get it.

But you know who the big winner in Mosul is going to be after we eventually
get it? And the only reason they did it is because she's running for the
office of president and they want to look tough. They want to look good. He
violated the red line in the sand, and he made so many mistakes, made all the
mistakes. That's why we have the great migration. But she wanted to look good
for the election. So they're going in.

But who's going to get Mosul, really? We'll take Mosul eventually. But the
way—if you look at what's happening, much tougher than they thought. Much,
much tougher. Much more dangerous. Going to be more deaths that they thought.

But the leaders that we wanted to get are all gone because they're smart. They
say, what do we need this for? So Mosul is going to be a wonderful thing. And
Iran should write us a letter of thank you, just like the really stupid—the
stupidest deal of all time, a deal that's going to give Iran absolutely
nuclear weapons. Iran should write us yet another letter saying thank you very
much, because Iran, as I said many years ago, Iran is taking over Iraq,
something they've wanted to do forever, but we've made it so easy for them.

So we're now going to take Mosul. And do you know who's going to be the
beneficiary? Iran. Oh, yeah, they're making—I mean, they are outsmarting—look,
you're not there, you might be involved in that decision. But you were there
when you took everybody out of Mosul and out of Iraq. You shouldn't have been
in Iraq, but you did vote for it. You shouldn't have been in Iraq, but once
you were in Iraq, you should have never left the way.


 The point is, the big winner is going to be Iran.


 Wrong.


 Wrong.


 Wrong.


 Chris, we don't gain anything.


 Iran is taking over Iraq.


 Iran is taking over Iraq. We don't gain anything.


 If they did it by surprise...


 We could have gained if they did it by surprise.


 No, you are the one that's unfit. You know, WikiLeaks just actually came out—John Podesta said some horrible things about you, and, boy, was he right. He said some beauties. And you know, Bernie Sanders, he said you have bad judgment. You do.

And if you think that going into Mosul after we let the world know we're going
in, and all of the people that we really wanted—the leaders—they're all gone.
If you think that was good, then you do. Now, John Podesta said you have
terrible instincts. Bernie Sanders said you have bad judgment. I agree with
both.


 Which is a big mistake.


 It's a catastrophe. I mean...


 ... it's a mess.


 Have you seen it? Have you seen it?


 Have you seen what's happening to Aleppo?


 OK, so it hasn't fallen. Take a look at it.


 That's right. And they are being slaughtered...


 ... because of bad decisions.


 Well, Aleppo is a disaster. It's a humanitarian nightmare. But it has fallen from the—from any standpoint. I mean, what do you need, a signed document? Take a look at Aleppo. It is so sad when you see what's happened.

And a lot of this is because of Hillary Clinton, because what's happened is,
by fighting Assad, who turned out to be a lot tougher than she thought, and
now she's going to say, oh, he loves Assad, she's—he's just much tougher and
much smarter than her and Obama. And everyone thought he was gone two years
ago, three years ago. He—he aligned with Russia.

He now also aligned with Iran, who we made very powerful. We gave them $150
billion back. We give them $1.7 billion in cash. I mean, cash. Bundles of cash
as big as this stage. We gave them $1.7 billion.

Now they have—he has aligned with Russia and with Iran. They don't want ISIS,
but they have other things, because we're backing—we're backing rebels. We
don't know who the rebels are. We're giving them lots of money, lots of
everything. We don't know who the rebels are. And when and if—and it's not
going to happen, because you have Russia and you have Iran now. But if they
ever did overthrow Assad, you might end up with—as bad as Assad is, and he's a
bad guy, but you may very well end up with worse than Assad.

If she did nothing, we'd be in much better shape. And this is what's caused
the great migration, where she's taking in tens of thousands of Syrian
refugees, who probably in many cases—not probably, who are definitely...


 ... in many cases, ISIS-aligned, and we now have them in our country, and wait until you see—this is going to be the great Trojan horse. And wait until you see what happens in the coming years. Lots of luck, Hillary. Thanks a lot for doing a great job.


 But I just have to...


 It's so ridiculous what she—she will defeat ISIS. We should have never let ISIS happen in the first place. And right now, they're in 32 countries.


 We should have—wait one second. They had a cease-fire three weeks ago. A cease-fire, the United States, Russia, and Syria. And during the cease-fire, Russia took over vast swatches of land, and then they said we don't want the cease-fire anymore.

We are so outplayed on missiles, on cease-fires. They are outplayed. Now, she
wasn't there. I assume she had nothing to do with it. But our country is so
outplayed by Putin and Assad, and by the way—and by Iran. Nobody can believe
how stupid our leadership is.


 Well, I say they're wrong, because I'm going to create tremendous jobs. And we're bringing GDP from, really, 1 percent, which is what it is now, and if she got in, it will be less than zero. But we're bringing it from 1 percent up to 4 percent. And I actually think we can go higher than 4 percent. I think you can go to 5 percent or 6 percent. And if we do, you don't have to bother asking your question, because we have a tremendous machine. We will have created a tremendous economic machine once again. To do that, we're taking back jobs. We're not going to let our companies be raided by other countries where we lose all our jobs, we don't make our product anymore. It's very sad. But I'm going to create a—the kind of a country that we were from the standpoint of industry. We used to be there. We've given it up. We've become very, very sloppy.

We've had people that are political hacks making the biggest deals in the
world, bigger than companies. You take these big companies, these trade deals
are far bigger than these companies, and yet we don't use our great leaders,
many of whom back me and many of whom back Hillary, I must say. But we don't
use those people. Those are the people—these are the greatest negotiators in
the world. We have the greatest businesspeople in the world. We have to use
them to negotiate our trade deals.

We use political hacks. We use people that get the position because they
gave—they made a campaign contribution and they're dealing with China and
people that are very much smarter than they are. So we have to use our great
people.

But that being said, we will create an economic machine the likes of which we
haven't seen in many decades. And people, Chris, will again go back to work
and they'll make a lot of money. And we'll have companies that will grow and
expand and start from new.


 Yeah, yeah, we've heard—we've heard this before, Hillary.


 We've heard this before.


 Thank you, Hillary. Could I just respond?


 Because I did disagree with Ronald Reagan very strongly on trade. I disagreed with him. We should have been much tougher on trade even then. I've been waiting for years. Nobody does it right.


 And frankly, now we're going to do it right.


 I'm cutting taxes. We're going to grow the economy. It's going to grow at a record rate of growth.


 No, it's going to totally help you. And one thing we have to do: Repeal and replace the disaster known as Obamacare. It's destroying our country. It's destroying our businesses, our small business and our big businesses. We have to repeal and replace Obamacare.

You take a look at the kind of numbers that that will cost us in the year '17,
it is a disaster. If we don't repeal and replace—now, it's probably going to
die of its own weight. But Obamacare has to go. It's—the premiums are going up
60 percent, 70 percent, 80 percent. Next year they're going to go up over 100
percent.

And I'm really glad that the premiums have started—at least the people see
what's happening, because she wants to keep Obamacare and she wants to make it
even worse, and it can't get any worse. Bad health care at the most expensive
price. We have to repeal and replace Obamacare.


 Such a nasty woman.


 Your husband disagrees with you.


 She's raising the money from the people she wants to control. Doesn't work that way.

But when I started this campaign, I started it very strongly. It's called
"Make America Great Again." We're going to make America great. We have a
depleted military. It has to be helped, has to be fixed. We have the greatest
people on Earth in our military. We don't take care of our veterans. We take
care of illegal immigrants, people that come into the country illegally,
better than we take care of our vets. That can't happen.

Our policemen and women are disrespected. We need law and order, but we need
justice, too. Our inner cities are a disaster. You get shot walking to the
store. They have no education. They have no jobs. I will do more for African-
Americans and Latinos than she can ever do in 10 lifetimes.

All she's done is talk to the African-Americans and to the Latinos, but they
get the vote, and then they come back, they say, we'll see you in four years.
We are going to make America strong again, and we are going to make America
great again, and it has to start now. We cannot take four more years of Barack
Obama, and that's what you get when you get her.


