 Elaine, thank you for being here tonight, and, Governor Pence, welcome. It is so great to be back at Longwood University in Farmville, Virginia.

This is a very special place. Sixty-five years ago, a young, courageous woman,
Barbara Johns, led a walkout of her high school, Moton High School. She made
history by protesting school segregation. She believed our nation was stronger
together. And that walkout led to the Brown v. Board of Education decision
that moved us down the path toward equality.

I am so proud to be running with another strong, history-making woman, Hillary
Clinton, to be president of the United States. I'm proud because her vision of
stronger together, building an economy that works for all, not just those at
the top, being safe in the world not only with a strong military, but also
strong alliances to battle terrorism and climate change, and also to build a
community of respect, just like Barbara Johns tried to do 65 years ago. That's
why I'm so proud to be her running mate.

Hillary told me why she asked me to be her running mate. She said the test of
a Clinton administration will not be the signing of a bill or the passage of a
bill. It'll be whether we can make somebody's life better, whether we can make
a classroom better learning environment for schoolkids or teachers, whether we
can make a safer — it's going to be about results.

And she said to me, you've been a missionary and a civil rights lawyer. You've
been a city councilman and mayor. You've been a lieutenant governor and
governor and now a U.S. senator. I think you will help me figure out how to
govern this nation so that we always keep in mind that the success of the
administration is the difference we make in people's lives.

And that's what I bring to the ticket, that experience having served at all
levels of government. But my primary role is to be Hillary Clinton's right-
hand person and strong supporter as she puts together the most historic
administration possible. And I relish that role. I'm so proud of her.

I'll just say this: We trust Hillary Clinton, my wife and I, and we trust her
with the most important thing in our life. We have a son deployed overseas in
the Marine Corps right now. We trust Hillary Clinton as president and
commander-in-chief, but the thought of Donald Trump as commander-in-chief
scares us to death.


 Elaine, let me tell you why I trust Hillary Clinton. Here's what people should look at as they look at a public servant. Do they have a passion in their life that showed up before they were in public life? And have they held onto that passion throughout their life, regardless of whether they were in office or not, succeeding or failing?

Hillary Clinton has that passion. From a time as a kid in a Methodist youth
group in the suburbs of Chicago, she has been focused on serving others with a
special focus on empowering families and kids. As a civil rights lawyer in the
South, with the Children's Defense Fund, first lady of Arkansas and this
country, senator, secretary of state, it's always been about putting others
first. And that's a sharp contrast with Donald Trump.

Donald Trump always puts himself first. He built a business career, in the
words of one of his own campaign staffers, "off the backs of the little guy."
And as a candidate, he started his campaign with a speech where he called
Mexicans rapists and criminals, and he has pursued the discredited and really
outrageous lie that President Obama wasn't born in the United States.

It is so painful to suggest that we go back to think about these days where an
African-American could not be a citizen of the United States. And I can't
imagine how Governor Pence can defend the insult- driven selfish "me first"
style of Donald Trump.


 You guys love Russia. You both have said...


 You both have said — you both have said Vladimir Putin is a better leader than the president.


 These guys have praised Vladimir Putin as a great leader. How can that...


 And paid few taxes and lost a billion a year.




 You are Donald Trump's apprentice. Let me talk about this...


 Well, I think — isn't this a discussion?


 Yeah, let's talk about the state of...


 Finish your sentence.


 OK, now I can weigh in. Now...


 Now, I get to weigh in. Now, let me just say this...


 Governor Pence — Governor Pence doesn't think the world's going so well and he, you know, is going to say it's everybody's fault.


 Let me tell you this. When Hillary Clinton became secretary of state, Governor Pence, did you know that Osama bin Laden was alive?


 Do you know that we had 175,000 troops deployed in the battlefield in Iraq and Afghanistan? Do you know that Iran was racing toward a nuclear weapon and Russia was expanding its stockpile?

Under Secretary Clinton's leadership, she was part of the national team,
public safety team that went after and revived the dormant hunt against bin
Laden and wiped him off the face of the Earth. She worked to deal with the
Russians to reduce their chemical weapons stockpile. She worked a tough
negotiation with nations around the world to eliminate the Iranian nuclear
weapons program without firing a shot.


 Absolutely, without firing a shot. And instead of 175,000 American troops deployed overseas, we now have 15,000.


 These are very, very good things.


 Well, if you want to put more American troops in Iraq, you can propose that.


 No, that is incorrect. That's incorrect.


 But I'd like to correct...


 Governor, President Bush said we would leave Iraq at the end of 2011. And, Elaine, Iraq didn't want our troops to stay, and they wouldn't give us the protection for our troops. And guess what? If a nation where our troops are serving does not want us to stay, we're not going to stay without their protection.


 If Governor Pence wants to put more troops back in Iraq, that's...


 OK.


 Elaine, on the economy, there's a fundamental choice for the American electorate. Do you want a "you're hired" president in Hillary Clinton or do you want a "you're fired" president in Donald Trump? I think that's not such a hard choice.

Hillary and I have a plan that's on the table that's a "you're hired" plan.
Five components. First thing we do is we invest in manufacturing,
infrastructure, and research in the clean energy jobs of tomorrow. Second
thing is we invest in our workforce, from pre-K education to great teachers to
debt-free college and tuition-free college for families that make less than
$125,000 a year.

Third, we promote fairness by raising the minimum wage, so you can't work
full-time and be under the poverty level, and by paying women equal pay for
equal work.

Fourth, we promote small business growth, just as we've done in Virginia, to
make it easier to start and grow small businesses. Hillary and I each grew up
in small-business families. My dad, who ran an iron working and welding shop,
is here tonight.

And, fifth, we have a tax plan that targets tax relief to middle- class
individuals and small businesses and asks those at the very top who've
benefited as we've come out of recession to pay more.

The Trump plan is a different plan. It's a "you're fired" plan. And there's
two key elements to it. First, Donald Trump said wages are too high. And both
Donald Trump and Mike Pence think we ought to eliminate the federal minimum
wage.

Mike Pence, when he was in Congress, voted against raising the minimum wage
above $5.15. And he has been a one-man bulwark against minimum wage increases
in Indiana.

The second component of the plan is massive tax breaks for the very top,
trillions of dollars of tax breaks for people just like Donald Trump. The
problem with this, Elaine, is that's exactly what we did 10 years ago and it
put the economy into the deepest recession — the deepest recession since the
1930s.

Independent analysts say the Clinton plan would grow the economy by 10.5
million jobs. The Trump plan would cost 3.5 million jobs. And Donald Trump —
why would he do this? Because his tax plan basically helps him. And if he ever
met his promise and he gave his tax returns to the American public like he
said he would, we would see just how much his economic plan is really a Trump-
first plan.


 Fifteen million new jobs?


 Fifteen million new jobs?


 And the poverty level and the median income...


 ... improved dramatically between 2014 and 2015.


 But it's not the giveaway tax relief to the folks at the top.


 I am interested to hear whether he'll defend his running mate's not releasing taxes and not paying taxes.


 But why won't he release his tax returns?


 I do want to come back to that, but...


 How do you know that? You haven't seen his tax returns.


 How do you know that?


 Elaine, let me talk about something.


 OK.


 Donald Trump started this campaign in 2014 and he said, "If I run for president, I will absolutely release my taxes." He's broken his first...


 He's broken his first promise. Second, he stood on the stage...


 He stood on the stage last week and when Hillary said, you haven't been paying taxes, he said, "That makes me smart." So it's smart not to pay for our military? It's smart not to pay for veterans? It's smart not to pay for teachers? And I guess all of us who do pay for those things, I guess we're stupid. And the last thing I'll say is this...


 The last thing — the last thing I want to ask Governor Pence is...


 Governor Pence had to give Donald Trump his tax returns to show he was qualified to be vice president. Donald Trump must give the American public his tax returns to show that he's qualified to be president. And he's breaking his promise.


 But he said he would release his tax returns.


 Richard Nixon released tax returns when he was under audit.


 If you can't meet Nixon's standard...


 All right. We're having fun up here.


 First, we're going to protect Social Security, which is one of the greatest programs that the American government has ever done. It happened at a time when you would work your whole life, your whole life, raising your kids, working, being a Little League coach or a Sunday school teacher, and then you would retire into poverty. And Social Security has enabled people to retire with dignity and overwhelmingly not be in poverty.

We have to keep it solvent. And we will keep it solvent. And we'll look for
strategies like adjusting the payroll tax cap upward in order to do that.

Here's what Hillary and I will not do. And I want to make this very plain. We
will never, ever engage in a risky scheme to privatize Social Security. Donald
Trump wrote a book and he said Social Security is a Ponzi scheme and
privatization would be good for all of us.

And when Congressman Pence was in Congress, he was the chief cheerleader for
the privatization of Social Security. Even after President Bush stopped
pushing for it, Congressman Pence kept pushing for it. We're going to stand up
against efforts to privatize Social Security. And we'll look for ways to keep
it solvent going forward, focusing primarily on the payroll tax cap.


 Go read — go read the book.


 Go read the book.


 But — but you have a voting record, Governor.


 I...


 I can't believe that you won't defend your own voting record.


 You're not going to cut taxes. You're going to raise taxes on the middle class.


 You did ask this question about debt, and the debt explosion on the Trump plan is much, much bigger than anything on the Clinton side.


 Elaine, I think that's a very fair comment. I think we put a lot on police shoulders. And this is something I got a lot of scar tissue and experience on.

I was a city councilman and mayor in Richmond. And when I came in, we had one
of the highest homicide rates in the United States. We fought very, very hard
over the course of my time in local office with our police department, and we
reduced our homicide rate nearly in half.

And then when I was governor of Virginia, we worked hard, too. And we did
something we had really wanted to do. For the first time ever, we cracked the
top 10, 10 safest states, because we worked together.

Here's what I learned as a mayor and a governor. The way you make communities
safer and the way you make police safer is through community policing. You
build the bonds between the community and the police force, build bonds of
understanding, and then when people feel comfortable in their communities,
that gap between the police and the communities they serve narrows. And when
that gap narrows, it's safer for the communities and it's safer for the
police.

That model still works across our country, but there are some other models
that don't work, an overly aggressive, more militarized model. Donald Trump
recently said we need to do more stop-and-frisk around the country. That would
be a big mistake because it polarizes the relationship between the police and
the community.

So here's what we'll do. We'll focus on community policing. We will focus on —
and Hillary Clinton has rolled out a really comprehensive mental health reform
package that she worked on with law enforcement professionals, and we will
also fight the scourge of gun violence in the United States.

I'm a gun-owner. I'm a strong Second Amendment supporter. But I've got a lot
of scar tissue, because when I was governor of Virginia, there was a horrible
shooting at Virginia Tech, and we learned that through that painful situation
that gaps in the background record check system should have been closed and it
could have prevented that crime, and so we're going to work to do things like
close background record checks. And if we do, we won't have the tragedies that
we did.

One of those killed at Virginia Tech was a guy named Liviu Librescu. He was a
70-plus-year-old Romanian Holocaust survivor. He had survived the Holocaust.
Then he survived the Soviet Union takeover of his country. But then he was a
visiting professor at Virginia Tech, and he couldn't survive the scourge of
gun violence.

We can support the Second Amendment and do things like background record
checks and make us safer, and that will make police safer, too.


 Can I — can I explain...


 Elaine — Elaine, people shouldn't be afraid to bring up issues of bias in law enforcement. And if you're afraid to have...


 And if — if you're afraid to have the discussion, you'll never solve it. And so here's — here's an example, heartbreaking. We would agree this was a heartbreaking example.

The guy, Philando Castile, who was killed in St. Paul, he was a worker, a
valued worker in a local school. And he was killed for no apparent reason in
an incident that will be discussed and will be investigated.

But when folks went and explored this situation, what they found is that
Philando Castile, who was a — they called him Mr. Rogers with Dreadlocks in
the school that he worked. The kids loved him. But he had been stopped by
police 40 or 50 times before that fatal incident. And if you look at
sentencing in this country, African-Americans and Latinos get sentenced for
the same crimes at very different rates.


 Well, we do.


 But I just want to say, those who say that we should not...


 ... we should not be able to bring up and talk about bias in the system, we'll never solve the problem...


 Well, I guess I can't believe you are defending the position that there is no bias and it's a topic we don't even...


 A U.S. senator.


 Elaine, can I...


 Elaine, let me — let me...


 Elaine, if I could — if I could jump in. I've heard Senator Scott make that eloquent plea. And look, criminal justice is about respecting the law and being respected by the law. So there is a fundamental respect issue here.

And I just want to talk about the tone that's set from the top. Donald Trump
during his campaign has called Mexicans rapists and criminals. He's called
women slobs, pigs, dogs, disgusting. I don't like saying that in front of my
wife and my mother. He attacked an Indiana-born federal judge and said he was
unqualified to hear a federal lawsuit because his parents were Mexican. He
went after John McCain, a POW, and said he wasn't hero because he'd been
captured. He said African-Americans are living in Hell. And he perpetrated
this outrageous and bigoted lie that President Obama is not a U.S. citizen.

If you want to have a society where people are respected and respect laws, you
can't have somebody at the top who demeans every group that he talks about.
And I just — again, I cannot believe that Governor Pence will defend the
insult-driven campaign that Donald Trump has run.


 I apologize. It's your two minutes. I apologize.


 Hillary Clinton said something on the campaign trail, and the very next day, she said, you know what, I shouldn't have said that.


 Yeah, that's right, so now we're even.


 Look for Donald trump apologizing to John McCain for saying he wasn't a hero...


 ... to Donald Trump apologizing for calling women slobs, pigs, dogs, disgusting.


 Did Donald Trump apologize for taking after somebody in a Twitter war and making fun of her weight? Did he apologize for saying African-Americans are living in Hell? Did he apologize for saying President Obama was not even a citizen of the United States? You will look in vain to see Donald Trump ever taking responsibility for anybody and apologizing.

Immigration. There's two plans on the table. Hillary and I believe in
comprehensive immigration reform. Donald Trump believes in deportation nation.
You've got to pick your choice. Hillary and I want a bipartisan reform that
will put keeping families together as the top goal, second, that will help
focus enforcement efforts on those who are violent, third, that will do more
border control, and, fourth, that will provide a path to citizenship for those
who work hard, pay taxes, play by the rules, and take criminal background
record checks.

That's our proposal. Donald Trump proposes to deport 16 million people, 11
million who are here without documents. And both Donald Trump and Mike Pence
want to get rid of birthright citizenship. So if you're born here, but your
parents don't have documents, they want to eliminate that. That's another 4.5
million people.

These guys — and Donald Trump have said it — deportation force. They want to
go house to house, school to school, business to business, and kick out 16
million people. And I cannot believe...


 I cannot believe that Governor Pence would sit here and defend his running mate's claim that we should create a deportation force to — so that they'll all be gone.


 So you like the 16 million deportations?


 Our plan is like Ronald Reagan's plan from 1986.


 No, I...


 ... border security three years ago, and Governor Pence was against it.


 I just have to correct Governor Pence....


 I have to...


 I look forward to working together in whatever capacities we serve in. But I just want to make it very, very clear that he's trying to fuzz up what Donald Trump has said. When Donald Trump spoke in Phoenix, he looked the audience in the eye and he said, no, we're building a wall, and we're deporting everybody. He said, quote, "They will all be gone." "They will all be gone." And this is one of these ones where you can just go to the tape on it and see what Donald Trump has said. And to add...


 And to add to it, and to add to it, and to add to it, we are a nation of immigrants. Mike Pence and I both are descended from immigrant families. Some things, you know, maybe weren't said so great about the Irish when they came, but we've done well by absorbing immigrants, and it's made our nation stronger.

When Donald Trump says Mexicans are rapists and criminals, Mexican immigrants,
when Donald Trump says about your judge, a Hoosier judge, he said that Judge
Curiel was unqualified to hear a case because his parents were Mexican, I
can't imagine how you could defend that.


 The terrorist threat has decreased in some ways, because bin Laden is dead. The terrorist threat has decreased in some ways because an Iranian nuclear weapons program has been stopped. The terrorist threat to United States troops has been decreased in some ways because there's not 175,000 in a dangerous part of the world. There's only 15,000.

But there are other parts of the world that are challenging. Let me tell you
this: To beat terrorism, there's only one candidate who can do it, and it's
Hillary Clinton. Remember, Hillary Clinton was the senator from New York on
9/11. She was there at the World Trade Center when they were still searching
for victims and survivors. That's seared onto her, the need to beat terrorism.

And she's got a plan to do it. She was part of the national security team that
wiped out bin Laden. Here's her plan to defeat ISIL. First, we've got to keep
taking out their leaders on the battlefield. She was part of the team that got
bin Laden, and she'll lead the team that will get Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, the
head of ISIS.

Second, we've got to disrupt financing networks, third, disrupt their ability
to recruit on the Internet, in their safe havens. But, fourth, we also have to
work with allies to share and surge intelligence. That's the Hillary Clinton
plan; she's got the experience to do it.

Donald Trump. Donald Trump can't start a Twitter war with Miss Universe
without shooting himself in the foot. Donald Trump doesn't have a plan. He
said, "I have a secret plan," and then he said, "Um, I know more than all the
generals about ISIL." And then he said, "I'm going to call the generals to
help me figure out a plan." And finally he said, "I'm going to fire all the
generals." He doesn't have a plan.

But he does have dangerous ideas. Here's four. He trash talks the military.
The military is a disaster, John McCain's no hero, the generals need all to be
fired, and I know more than them. He wants to tear up alliances. NATO is
obsolete, and we'll only work together with Israel if they pay "big league."

Third, he loves dictators. He's got kind of a personal Mount Rushmore,
Vladimir Putin, Kim Jong-un, Moammar Gadhafi...


 ... and Saddam Hussein. And last and most dangerously, Donald Trump believes — Donald Trump believes that the world will be safer if more nations have nuclear weapons. He's said Saudi Arabia should get them, Japan should get them, Korea should get them. And when he was confronted with this, and told, wait a minute, terrorists could get those, proliferation could lead to nuclear war, here's what Donald Trump said, and I quote: "Go ahead, folks, enjoy yourselves."

I'd love to hear Governor Pence tell me what's so enjoyable or comical about
nuclear war.


 Well, I'm going to see if you can defend any of it.


 I was in Virginia where the Pentagon's...


 Stopping a nuclear weapons program without firing a shot?


 Yes, we did.


 Even the Israeli military says it stopped.


 Elaine, I want to...


 Or instead of you violating the Constitution by blocking people based on their national origin rather than whether they're dangerous.


 That's what the Seventh Circuit decided just — here's the difference, Elaine.


 We have different views on — on refugee issues and on immigration. Hillary and I want to do enforcement based on, are people dangerous? These guys say all Mexicans are bad.


 And with respect to refugees, we want to keep people out if they're dangerous. Donald Trump said keep them out if they're Muslim. Mike Pence...


 ... put a program in place to keep them out if they're from Syria. And yesterday an appellate court with three Republican judges struck down the Pence plan...


 ... and said it was discriminatory...


 We should focus upon danger, not upon discrimination.


 But they told you there's a right way and a wrong way to do it.


 But, Governor Pence...


 But, Governor Pence, I just...


 Sure. Can we just be clear — Hillary and I will do immigration enforcement and we'll vet refugees based on whether they're dangerous or not. We won't do it based on discriminating against you from the country you come from or the religion that you practice.


 That is completely antithetical to the Jeffersonian values of...


 Yes, we can, and when we don't let them know, we don't let them in.


 When we don't know who they are, we don't let them in.


 By trashing all Syrians or trashing all Muslims?


 Yes.


 Intelligence surge is two-thirds, Elaine. It's two things. It's, first, dramatically expanding our intelligence capacities by hiring great professionals, but also we've got some of the best intel and cyber employees in the world right here in the United States working for many of our private sector companies.

So it involves increasing our own workforce, but striking great partnerships
with some of our cyber and intel experts in the private sector so that we can,
consistent with constitutional principles, gather more intelligence.

But the second piece of this is really, really important. It also means
creating stronger alliances, because you gather intelligence and then you
share your intelligence back and forth with allies. And that's how you find
out who may be trying to recruit, who may be trying to come to one country or
the next. Alliances are critical.

That's why Donald Trump's claim that he wants to — that NATO is obsolete and
that we need to get rid of NATO is so dangerous.


 We will work together in whatever roles we inhabit.


 And all investigation concluded that not one reasonable prosecutor would take any additional step. You don't get to decide the rights and wrongs of this. We have a justice system that does that. And a Republican FBI director did an investigation and concluded that... 


 That is absolutely false and you know that.


 And you know that, Governor.


 Because the FBI did an investigation.


 And they concluded that there was no reasonable prosecutor who would take it further. Sorry.


 Syria.


 Hillary and I also agree that the establishment of humanitarian zones in northern Syria with the provision of international human aid, consistent with the U.N. Security Council resolution that was passed in February 2014, would be a very, very good idea.

And Hillary also has the ability to stand up to Russia in a way that this
ticket does not. Donald Trump, again and again, has praised Vladimir Putin.
And it's clear that he has business dealings with Russian oligarchs who are
very connected to Putin.

The Trump campaign management team had to be fired a month or so ago because
of those shadowy connections with pro-Putin forces. Governor Pence made the
odd claim, he said inarguably Vladimir Putin is a better leader than President
Obama. Vladimir Putin has run his economy into the ground. He persecutes LGBT
folks and journalists. If you don't know the difference between dictatorship
and leadership, then you got to go back to a fifth-grade civics class.

I'll tell you what offends me...


 Governor Pence just said — Governor Pence just said that Donald Trump will rebuild the military. No, he won't. Donald Trump is avoiding paying taxes. The New York Times story — and we need to get this — but the New York Times suggested that he probably didn't pay taxes for about 18 years starting in 1995. Those years included the years of 9/11.

So get this. On 9/11, Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump's hometown was attacked
by the worst terrorist attack in the history of the United States. Young men
and women — young men and women signed up to serve in the military to fight
terrorism. Hillary Clinton went to Washington to get funds to rebuild her city
and protect first responders, but Donald Trump was fighting a very different
fight. It was a fight to avoid paying taxes so that he wouldn't support the
fight against terror.


 He wouldn't support troops. He wouldn't — he wouldn't support — this is important, Elaine. When a guy running for president will not support the troops, not support veterans, not support teachers, that's really important.


 And I said about Aleppo, we do agree the notion is we have to create a humanitarian zone in northern Syria. It's very important.


 He won't pay taxes.


 It is about our troops. It is about our troops.


 How can you support the troops if you won't pay taxes?


 Do you think Donald Trump is smart to not pay taxes?


 Well, let me — let me come back...


 ... and talk about — let me talk about the things that Governor Pence doesn't want to acknowledge, Elaine. He doesn't want to acknowledge that we stopped the Iranian nuclear weapons program. He doesn't want to acknowledge...


 ... that Hillary was part of a team that got bin Laden. He doesn't want to acknowledge...


 ... that it's a good thing, not a bad thing, that it's a good thing — not a bad thing — that we're down from 175,000 troops deployed overseas to 15,000.

But let me tell you what will really make the Middle East dangerous. Donald
Trump's idea that more nations should get nuclear weapons, Saudi Arabia,
Japan, South Korea. Ronald Reagan said something really interesting about
nuclear proliferation back in the 1980s. He said the problem with nuclear
proliferation is that some fool or maniac could trigger a catastrophic event.
And I think that's who Governor Pence's running mate is, exactly who Governor
Reagan warned us about.


 But do you — do you think — do you think we should have — more nuclear weapons in the world will make us safer?


 That's what Donald Trump thinks.


 But can you defend Donald Trump's claim that more nations should get nuclear weapons?


 That's what the Israeli joint chiefs of staff is saying right now.


 Gadi Eizenkot, you can go check it.


 Go to the tape.


 No, I visited him in his office. I visited him in his office.


 And then Hillary used them to get a deal.


 Elaine, let me just mention one thing.




 Elaine...


 Six times tonight, I have said to Governor Pence I can't imagine how you can defend your running mate's position on one issue after the next. And in all six cases, he's refused to defend his running mate.


 And yet he is asking everybody to vote for somebody that he cannot defend. And I just think that should be underlined.


 More nations should get nuclear weapons. Try to defend that.


 He absolutely said it. Saudi Arabia, South Korea, Japan.


 You've got to be tough on Russia. So let's start with not praising Vladimir Putin as a great leader. Donald Trump and Mike Pence have said he's a great leader. And Donald Trump has business...


 ... has business dealings — has business dealings with Russia that he refuses to disclose. Hillary Clinton has gone toe-to- toe with Russia. She went toe-to-toe with Russia as secretary of state to do the New START Agreement to reduce Russia's nuclear stockpile. She's had the experience doing it.

She went toe-to-toe with Russia and lodged protests when they went into
Georgia. And we've done the same thing about Ukraine, but more than launching
protests, we've put punishing economic sanctions on Russia that we need to
continue.

Donald Trump, on the other hand, didn't know that Russia had invaded the
Crimea.


 He was on a TV show a couple months back, and he said, "I'll guarantee you this, Russia's not going into the Ukraine." And he had to be reminded that they had gone into the Crimea two years before.


 Hillary Clinton has gone toe-to-toe with Russia to work out a deal on New START. She got them engaged on a meaningful way to cap Iran's nuclear weapons program. And yet she stood up to them on issues such as Syria and their invasion of Georgia. You've got to have the ability to do that, and Hillary does.

On the other hand, in Donald Trump, you have somebody who praises Vladimir
Putin all the time. America should really wonder about a President Trump, who
had a campaign manager with ties to Putin, pro- Putin elements in the Ukraine,
who had to be fired for that reason. They should wonder — when Donald Trump is
sitting down with Vladimir Putin, is it going to be America's bottom line or
is it going to be Donald Trump's bottom line that he's going to be worried
about with all of his business dealings?

Now, this could be solved if Donald Trump would be willing to release his tax
returns, as he told the American public that he would do. And I know he's
laughing at this, but every president...


 Every president since Richard Nixon has done it, and Donald Trump has said I'm doing business with Russia. The only way the American public will see whether he has a conflict of interest...


 He has, actually.


 You know, I'm just saying facts about your running mate.


 And I know you can't defend.


 You're not.


 I'll run through the list of things where you won't defend...


 We even wiped out the leader of Al Qaida.


 We stopped Iran from getting nuclear weapons.


 And we stopped a nuclear weapons program without a shot.


 Business dealings.


 Donald Trump's son says that the Trump organization...


 Well, this is one where we can just kind of go to the tape on it. But Governor Pence said, inarguably, Vladimir Putin is a better leader than President Obama.


 And — and — and I just think a guy who praises...


 No, he said leader. And if — and I'll just say this, Governor.


 If you mistake leadership for dictatorship, and you can't tell the difference, a country that's running its economy into the ground...


 ... persecuting journalists...


 ... if you can't tell the difference, you shouldn't be commander-in-chief.


 And with Donald Trump — Donald Trump's sons say that they have all these business dealings with Russia. Those could be disclosed with tax returns, but they refuse to do them. Americans need to worry about whether Donald Trump will be watching out for America's bottom line or his own bottom line.


 Vladimir Putin. Vladimir Putin is a dictator.


 Vladimir Putin is a dictator. He's not a leader. Anybody who thinks otherwise doesn't know Russian history and they don't know Vladimir Putin. Hillary Clinton knows exactly who this guy is. John McCain said, I look in his eyes and I see KGB. And Hillary kind of has that same feeling.


 So how do deal with him? You've got to — we do have to deal with Russia in a lot of different ways. There are areas where we can cooperate. So it was Hillary Clinton who worked with Russia on the New START Treaty to reduce their nuclear weapons stockpile. It was Hillary Clinton that worked with Russia to get them engaged in a community of nations to stop the Iranian nuclear weapons without firing a shot.

She's not going around praising Vladimir Putin as a great guy. But she knows
how to sit down at a table and negotiate tough deals. This is a very
challenging part of the world, and we ought to have a commander-in-chief who
is prepared and done it, rather than somebody who goes around praising
Vladimir Putin as a great leader.


 Until he...


 I'm going to talk about the foundation, and then I'll talk about North Korea. So, on the foundation. I am glad to talk about the foundation. The Clinton Foundation is one of the highest- rated charities in the world. It provides AIDS drugs to about 11.5 million people. It helps Americans deal with opioid overdoses. It gets higher rankings for its charity than the American Red Cross does. The Clinton foundation does an awful lot of good work.

Hillary Clinton as secretary of state took no action to benefit the
foundation. The State Department did an investigation, and they concluded that
everything Hillary Clinton did as secretary of state was completely in the
interest of the United States. So the foundation does good work. And Hillary
Clinton as secretary of state acted in the interests of the United States.

But let's compare this now with the Trump organization and the Trump
Foundation. The Trump organization is an octopus-like organization with
tentacles all over the world whose conflict of interests could only be known
if Donald Trump would release his tax returns. He's refused to do it.

His sons have said that the organization has a lot of business dealings in
Russia. And remember, the Trump organization is not a non-profit. It's putting
money into Donald Trump's pockets and into the pockets of his children,
whereas the Clinton Foundation is a non- profit and no Clinton family member
draws any salary.


 In addition, Donald Trump has a foundation. The foundation was just fined for illegally contributing foundation dollars to a political campaign of a Florida attorney general. They made an illegal contribution, and then they tried to hide it by disguising it to somebody else. And the person they donated to was somebody whose office was charged with investigating Trump University.

This is the difference between a foundation that does good work and a
secretary of state who acted in accordance with American interest and somebody
who is conflicted and doing work around the world and won't share with the
American public what he's doing and what those conflicts are.


 Political contributions?


 A $20,000 portrait of Donald Trump? PENCE: Less than 10 cents on the dollar of the Clinton Foundation has gone to charitable causes.


 Ninety percent.


 If we — look, a president should take action to defend the United States against imminent threat. You have to. A president has to do that. Now exactly what action, you would have to determine what your intelligence was, how certain you were of that intelligence, but you would have to take action.

You asked the question about how do we deal with a North Korea. I'm on the
Foreign Relations Committee. We just did an extensive sanctions package
against North Korea. And interestingly enough, Elaine, the U.N. followed and
did this — virtually the same package. Often China will use their veto in the
Security Council to veto a package like that. They're starting to get worried
about North Korea, too. So they actually supported the sanctions package, even
though many of the sanctions are against Chinese firms, Chinese financial
institutions.

So we're working together with China, and we need to. China's another one of
those relationships where it's competitive, it's also challenging, and in
times like North Korea, we have to be able to cooperate. Hillary understands
that very well. She went once famously to China and stood up at a human rights
meeting and looked them in the eye and said, "Women's rights are human
rights." They didn't want her to say that, but she did.

But she's also worked on a lot of diplomatic and important diplomatic deals
with China. And that's what it's going to take.

The thing I would worry a little bit about is that Donald Trump owes about
$650 million to banks, including the Bank of China. I'm not sure he could
stand up so tough to the people who have loaned him money.


 Yeah, that's an easy one for me, Elaine. It's an easy one. I'm really fortunate. I grew up in a wonderful household with great Irish Catholic parents. My mom and dad are sitting right here. I was educated by Jesuits at Rockhurst High School in Kansas City. My 40th reunion is in 10 days.

And I worked with Jesuit missionaries in Honduras, now nearly 35 years ago,
and they were the heroes of my life. I try to practice my religion in a very
devout way and follow the teachings of my church in my own personal life. But
I don't believe in this nation, a First Amendment nation, where we don't raise
any religion over the other, and we allow people to worship as they please,
that the doctrines of any one religion should be mandated for everyone.

For me, the hardest struggle in my faith life was the Catholic Church is
against the death penalty and so am I. But I was governor of a state, and the
state law said that there was a death penalty for crimes if the jury
determined them to be heinous. And so I had to grapple with that.

When I was running for governor, I was attacked pretty strongly because of my
position on the death penalty. But I looked the voters of Virginia in the eye
and said, look, this is my religion. I'm not going to change my religious
practice to get one vote, but I know how to take an oath and uphold the law.
And if you elect me, I will uphold the law.

And I was elected, and I did. It was very, very difficult to allow executions
to go forward, but in circumstances where I didn't feel like there was a case
for clemency, I told Virginia voters I would uphold the law, and I did.

That was a real struggle. But I think it is really, really important that
those of us who have deep faith lives don't feel that we could just substitute
our own views for everybody else in society, regardless of their views.


 That's shared.


 Elaine, this is a fundamental question, a fundamental question. Hillary and I are both people out of religious backgrounds, from Methodist church experience, which was really formative for her as a public servant.

But we really feel like you should live fully and with enthusiasm the commands
of your faith. But it is not the role of the public servant to mandate that
for everybody else.

So let's talk about abortion and choice. Let's talk about them. We support Roe
v. Wade. We support the constitutional right of American women to consult
their own conscience, their own supportive partner, their own minister, but
then make their own decision about pregnancy. That's something we trust
American women to do that.

And we don't think that women should be punished, as Donald Trump said they
should, for making the decision to have an abortion.

Governor Pence wants to repeal Roe v. Wade. He said he wants to put it on the
ash heap of history. And we have some young people in the audience who weren't
even born when Roe was decided. This is pretty important. Before Roe v. Wade,
states could pass criminal laws to do just that, to punish women if they made
the choice to terminate a pregnancy.

I think you should live your moral values. But the last thing, the very last
thing that government should do is have laws that would punish women who make
reproductive choices. And that is the fundamental difference between a
Clinton-Kaine ticket and a Trump- Pence ticket that wants to punish women who
make that choice.


 Then why did Donald Trump say that?


 Why did he say that?


 Well, I would admit that's not a polished...


 Well, can I say...


 Great line from the — great line from the gospel of Matthew. From the fullness of the heart, the mouth speaks.


 When Donald Trump says women should be punished or Mexicans are rapists and criminals...


 ... or John McCain is not a hero, he is showing you who he is.


 Can you defend it?


 You want to — you want to use a big broad brush against Mexicans on that?


 This is important —


 But, Governor...


 Governor, why don't you trust women to make this choice for themselves? We can encourage people to support life. Of course we can. But why don't you trust women? Why doesn't Donald Trump trust women to make this choice for themselves?

That's what we ought to be doing in public life. Living our lives of faith or
motivation with enthusiasm and excitement, convincing other, dialoguing with
each other about important moral issues of the day...


 ... but on fundamental issues of morality, we should let women make their own decisions.


 That's a really important one. That may be the $64,000 question, because it has been a divisive campaign. And again, Hillary is running a campaign about stronger together, and Donald Trump — and this is — this is not directed at this man, except to the extent that he can't defend Donald Trump — Donald Trump has run a campaign that's been about one insult after the next.

But we do have to bring the country together. So here's what we'll do. Hillary
Clinton was first lady, then senator for eight years and secretary of state.
And I served in the Senate. And I'm really amazed, Elaine, as I talk to
Republican senators, how well they regard and respect Hillary Clinton.

She was on the Armed Services Committee. She was on other committees. She
worked across the aisle when she was first lady to get the CHIP program passed
so that 8 million low-income kids have health insurance in this country,
including 150,000 in Indiana.

She worked across the aisle after 9/11 to get health benefits for the first
responders who bravely went into the towers and into the Pentagon. She worked
to get benefits for — TRICARE benefits for National Guard members, including
Hoosiers and Virginians in the National Guard.

She has a track record of working across the aisle to make things happen. And,
you know, Elaine, I have the same track record. I was a governor of Virginia
with two Republican houses. And in the Senate, I have good working
relationships across the aisle.

Because I think it's fine to be a Democrat or Republican or independent, but
after Election Day, the goal is work together. And Hillary Clinton has a track
record of accomplishment across the aisle that will enable her to do just that
when we work with the new Congress in January.


 Absolutely.


