 Well, first off, thank you, Elaine, and thank you to — thank you to Norwood University for their wonderful hospitality and the Commission on Presidential Debates. It's deeply humbling for me to be here, to be surrounded by my — my wonderful family.

And, Senator Kaine, it's an honor to be here with you, as well. And I just — I
also want to say — I want to say thanks to everyone that's looking in tonight,
who understands what an enormously important time this is in the life of our
nation.

For the last seven-and-a-half years, we've seen America's place in the world
weakened. We've seen an economy stifled by more taxes, more regulation, a war
on coal, and a failing health care reform come to be known as Obamacare, and
the American people know that we need to make a change. And so I want to thank
all of you for being — being with us tonight.

I also want to thank Donald Trump for making that call and inviting us to be a
part of this ticket. I have to tell you, I'm a — I'm a small-town boy from a
place not too different from Farmville. I grew up with a cornfield in my
backyard. My grandfather had immigrated to this country when he was about my
son's age. My mom and dad built a — everything that matters in a small town in
Southern Indiana. They built a family and — and a good name and a business.
And they raised a family. And I dreamed some day of representing my home town
in Washington, D.C., but I — honestly, Elaine, I never imagined — never
imagined I'd have the opportunity to be governor of the state that I love, let
alone be sitting at a table like this in this kind of a position.

So to answer your question, I would say I — I would hope that if — if the
responsibility ever fell to me in this role, that I would meet it with the way
that I'm going to meet the responsibility should I be elected vice president
of the United States. And that's to bring a lifetime of experience, a lifetime
growing up in a small town, a lifetime where I've served in the Congress of
the United States, where — where I've led a state that works in the great
state of Indiana, and whatever other responsibilities might follow from this,
I — I would hope and, frankly, I would pray to be able to meet that moment
with that — that lifetime of experience.


 Well, let me — let me say first and foremost that, Senator, you and Hillary Clinton would know a lot about an insult- driven campaign. It really is remarkable. At a time when literally, in the wake of Hillary Clinton's tenure as secretary of state, where she was the architect of the Obama administration's foreign policy, we see entire portions of the world, particularly the wider Middle East, literally spinning out of control. I mean, the situation we're watching hour by hour in Syria today is the result of the failed foreign policy and the weak foreign policy that Hillary Clinton helped lead in this administration and create. The newly emboldened — the aggression of Russia, whether it was in Ukraine or now they're heavy-handed approach...


 ... their heavy-handed approach.


 Well...


 But in the midst — Elaine, thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Senator, I'll...


 Well, Senator, I must have hit a......I must have hit a nerve here.


 Because at a time of great challenge in the life of this nation, where we've weakened America's place in the world, stifled America's economy, the campaign of Hillary Clinton and Tim Kaine has been an avalanche of insults.

Look, to get to your question about trustworthiness, Donald Trump has built a
business through hard times and through good times. He's brought an
extraordinary business acumen. He's employed tens of thousands of people in
this country.


 Senator, I think I'm still on my time.


 Well, let me interrupt — let me interrupt you and finish my sentence, if I can.


 The Clinton Foundation accepted foreign contributions from foreign governments and foreign donors while she was secretary of state.


 She had a private server...


 ... that was discovered...


 ... keep that pay to play process out of the reach of the public.


 Do you?


 Yes.


 Eliminate the Iranian nuclear weapons program?


 Right and...


 And Iraq has been overrun by ISIS, because Hillary Clinton failed to renegotiate...


 Hillary Clinton — Hillary Clinton — Hillary Clinton failed to renegotiate a status of forces agreement...


 And so we removed — we removed all of our...


 ... troops from Iraq, and ISIS was able to be conjured up in that vacuum.


 ... and overrun vast areas of Iraq.


 It was a failure of the secretary of state...


 I think the fact that — that under this past administration was of which Hillary Clinton was a part, we've almost doubled the national debt is atrocious. I mean, I'm very proud of the fact that — I come from a state that works. The state of Indiana has balanced budgets. We cut taxes, we've made record investments in education and in infrastructure, and I still finish my term with $2 billion in the bank.

That's a little bit different than when Senator Kaine was governor here in
Virginia. He actually — he actually tried to raise taxes by about $4 billion.
He left his state about $2 billion in the hole. In the state of Indiana, we've
cut unemployment in half; unemployment doubled when he was governor.

But I think he's a very fitting running mate for Hillary Clinton, because in
the wake of a season where American families are struggling in this economy
under the weight of higher taxes and Obamacare and the war on coal and the
stifling avalanche of regulation coming out of this administration, Hillary
Clinton and Tim Kaine want more of the same. It really is remarkable that they
actually are advocating a trillion dollars in tax increases, which I get that.
You tried to raise taxes here in Virginia and were unsuccessful.

But a trillion dollars in tax increases, more regulation, more of the same war
on coal, and more of Obamacare that now even former President Bill Clinton
calls Obamacare a crazy plan. But Hillary Clinton and Tim Kaine want to build
on Obamacare. They want to expand it into a single-payer program. And for all
the world, Hillary Clinton just thinks Obamacare is a good start.

Look, Donald Trump and I have a plan to get this economy moving again just the
way that it worked in the 1980s, just the way it worked in the 1960s, and that
is by lowering taxes across the board for working families, small businesses
and family farms, ending the war on coal that is hurting jobs and hurting this
economy even here in Virginia, repealing Obamacare lock, stock, and barrel,
and repealing all of the executive orders that Barack Obama has signed that
are stifling economic growth in this economy.

We can get America moving again. Put on top of that the kind of trade deals
that'll put the American worker first, and you've got a prescription for real
growth. And when you get the economy growing, Elaine, that's when you can deal
with the national debt. When we get back to 3.5 percent to 4 percent growth
with Donald Trump's plan will do, then we're going to have the resources to
meet our nation's needs at home and abroad, and we're going to have the
ability to bring down the national debt.


 Well, first, let me say, I appreciated the "you're hired," "you're fired" thing, Senator. You use that a whole lot. And I think your running mate used a lot of pre-done lines.

Look, what — what you all just heard out there is more taxes, $2 trillion in
more spending, more deficits, more debt, more government. And if you think
that's all working, then you look at the other side of the table. I mean, the
truth of the matter is, the policies of this administration, which Hillary
Clinton and Senator Kaine want to continue, have run this economy into a
ditch. We're in the...


 ... slowest economic recovery since the Great Depression.


 There are millions more people living in poverty today than the day that Barack Obama with Hillary Clinton at his side...


 ... stepped into the Oval Office.


 You — honestly, Senator, you can roll out the numbers and the sunny side, but I got to tell you, people in Scranton know different. People in Fort Wayne, Indiana, know different. I mean, this economy is struggling. The answer to this economy is not more taxes.


 It's not more spending...


 Absolutely I will.


 Well, this is probably the difference between Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton and Senator Kaine. And, I mean, Hillary Clinton and Senator Kaine — God bless you for it, career public servants, that's great — Donald Trump is a businessman, not a career politician. He actually built a business.

Those tax returns that were — that came out publicly this week show that he
faced some pretty tough times 20 years ago. But like virtually every other
business, including the New York Times not too long ago, he used what's called
net operating loss. We have a tax code, Senator, that actually is designed to
encourage entrepreneurship in this country.


 Well, we're answering the question about — about a business thing, is he...


 His tax returns — his tax returns showed he went through a very difficult time, but he used the tax code just the way it's supposed to be used. And he did it brilliantly. 


 He created a runway — because he's created a business that's worth billions of dollars today.


 And with regard to paying taxes, this whole riff about not paying taxes and people saying he didn't pay taxes for years, Donald Trump has created tens of thousands of jobs. And he's paid payroll taxes, sales taxes, property taxes...


 The only issue on taxes — Hillary Clinton is going to raise taxes, and Donald Trump and I are going to cut them.


 And he will.


 He hasn't broken his promise. He said he's...


 Senator, do you take all the deductions that you're entitled to?


 I do.


 Elaine, I have to respond to this.


 I'll be — I'll be very respectful.


 Look, Donald Trump has filed over 100 pages of financial disclosure, which is what the law requires.


 The American people can review that. And he's going — Senator, he's going to release his tax returns when the audit is over...


 They're going to raise your taxes. We're going to cut your taxes.


 Well, thanks, Elaine. There they go again. OK...


 All Donald Trump — all Donald Trump and I have said about Social Security is we're going to meet our obligations to our seniors. That's it.


 We've said we're going to meet the obligations of Medicare. That's what this campaign is really about, Senator. And I get, this is — this is the old scare tactic that they roll out...


 And I get all of that. I just, look...


 There's a question that you asked a little bit earlier that I want to go back to.


 I have to go back to.


 Well, look, I — you're running with Hillary Clinton, who wants to raise taxes by $1 trillion, increase spending by $2 trillion, and you say you're going to keep the promises of Social Security. Donald Trump and I are going to cut taxes. We're going to — we're going to — we're going to...


 ... reform government programs so we can meet the obligations of Social Security and Medicare.


 Three hundred and five economists said your plan is bad for the economy.


 You know, my uncle was a cop, a career cop, on the beat in downtown Chicago. He was my hero when I was growing up. And we'd go up to visit my dad's family in Chicago. My three brothers and I would marvel at my uncle when he would come out in his uniform, sidearm at his side.

Police officers are the best of us. And the men and women, white, African-
American, Asian, Latino, Hispanic, they put their lives on the line every
single day. And let my say, at the risk of agreeing with you, community
policing is a great idea. It's worked in the Hoosier state. And we fully
support that.

Donald Trump and I are going to make sure that law enforcement have the
resources and the tools to be able to really restore law and order to the
cities and communities in this nation. It's probably — probably why the
330,000 members of the Fraternal Order of Police endorsed Donald Trump as the
next president of the United States of America, because they see his
commitment to them. They see his commitment to law and order.

But they also — they also hear the bad mouthing, the bad mouthing that comes
from people that seize upon tragedy in the wake of police action shootings as
— as a reason to — to use a broad brush to accuse law enforcement of — of
implicit bias or institutional racism. And that really has got to stop.

I mean, when an African-American police officer in Charlotte named Brentley
Vinson, an all-star football player who went to Liberty University here in the
state, came home, followed his dad into law enforcement, joined the force in
Charlotte, joined the force in Charlotte in 2014, was involved in a police
action shooting that claimed the life of Keith — Keith Lamont Scott, it was a
tragedy. I mean, I — we — we mourn with those who mourn. We — we grieve with
those who grieve. And we're saddened at the loss of life.

But Hillary Clinton actually referred to that moment as an example of implicit
bias in the police force, where — where she used — when she was asked in the
debate a week ago whether there was implicit bias in law enforcement, her only
answer was that there's implicit bias in everyone in the United States. I just
think...


 ... I just think what we ought to do is we ought to stop seizing on these moments of tragedy. We ought to assure the public that we'll have a full and complete and transparent investigation whenever there's a loss of life because of police action. But, Senator, please, you know, enough of this seeking every opportunity to demean law enforcement broadly by making the accusation of implicit bias every time tragedy occurs.


 I'm not afraid to bring that up.


 We need criminal justice reform.


 Indiana has passed criminal justice reform.


 But that's not what you're talking about.


 Senator, when African-American police officers involved in a police action shooting involving an African-American, why would Hillary Clinton accuse that African-American police officer of implicit bias?


 I did not make that statement. I...


 Well, I have the deepest respect for Senator Scott, and he's a close friend. And what I would say is that we — we need to adopt criminal justice reform nationally. I — I signed criminal justice reform in the state of Indiana, Senator, and we're very proud of it.

I worked when I was Congress on a second chance act. We have got to do a
better job recognizing and correcting the errors in the system that do reflect
on institutional bias in criminal justice. But what — what — what Donald Trump
and I are saying is let's not have the reflex of assuming the worst of men and
women in law enforcement. We truly do believe that law enforcement is not a
force for racism or division in our country...


 Law enforcement in this country is a force for good. They are the — they truly are people that put their lives on the line every single day. But I would — I would suggest to you, what we need to do is assert a stronger leadership at the national level to support law enforcement. You just heard Senator Kaine reject stop-and-frisk. Well, I would suggest to you that the families that live in our inner cities that are besieged by crime...


 Donald Trump's laid out a plan to end illegal immigration once and for all in this country. We've been talking it to death for 20 years. Hillary Clinton and Tim Kaine want to continue the policies of open borders, amnesty, catch and release, sanctuary cities, all the things that are driving — that are driving wages down in this country, Senator, and also too often with criminal aliens in the country, it's bringing heartbreak.

But I — Donald Trump has a plan that he laid out in Arizona, that will deal
systemically with illegal immigration, beginning with border security,
internal enforcement. It's probably why for the first time in the history of
Immigration and Customs Enforcement their union actually endorsed Donald Trump
as the next president of the United States, because they know they need help
to enforce the laws of this country.

And Donald Trump has laid out a priority to remove criminal aliens, remove
people that have overstayed their visas. And — and once we have accomplished
all of that, which will — which will strengthen our economy, strengthen the
rule of law in the country and make our communities safer once the criminal
aliens are out, then we'll deal with those that remain.

But I have to tell you, I just — I was listening to the avalanche of insults
coming out of Senator Kaine a minute ago. KAINE: These were Donald's — hold on
a second, Governor.




 It's my time, Senator.


 Thanks. I forgive you. He says ours is an insult-driven campaign. Did you all just hear that? Ours is an insult-driven campaign?

I mean, to be honest with you, if Donald Trump had said all of the things that
you've said he said in the way you said he said them, he still wouldn't have a
fraction of the insults that Hillary Clinton leveled when she said that half
of our supporters were a basket of deplorables. It's — she said they were
irredeemable, they were not American.

I mean, it's extraordinary. And then she labeled one after another "ism" on
millions of Americans who believe that we can have a stronger America at home
and abroad, who believe we can get this economy moving again, who believe that
we can end illegal immigration once and for all. So, Senator, this — this
insult-driven campaign, I mean...


 That's small potatoes compared to Hillary Clinton...


 .... calling half of Donald Trump's supporters a basket of deplorables.


 She said she shouldn't have said half.


 Yeah. 


 Oh...


 She apologized for saying "half."


 That's nonsense. That's nonsense.


 Senator, we have a deportation force. It's called Immigrations and Customs Enforcement. And the union for Immigrations and Customs Enforcement for the first time in their history endorsed Donald Trump to be the next president of the United States of America.


 Senator, that's — that's nonsense. Look, what you just heard is they have a plan for open borders, amnesty. That's...


 They call it comprehensive immigration reform — they call it comprehensive immigration reform on Capitol Hill. We all know the routine. It's amnesty. And you heard one of the last things he mentioned was border security.

That's how Washington always plays it.


 They always say we're going to do this, we're going to do that, we'll eventually get the border...


 Ronald Reagan said a nation without borders is not a nation. Donald Trump is committed to restoring the borders of this nation and securing our nation, enforcing our laws.


 Well, I think Donald Trump laid out a series of priorities that doesn't ends with border security. It begins with border security. And after we secure the border, not only build a wall, but beneath the ground and in the air, we do internal enforcement.

But he said the focus has to be on criminal aliens. We just — we just had a
conversation about law enforcement. We just had a conversation about the — the
violence that's besetting our cities. The reality is that there's heartbreak
and tragedy that has struck American families because people that came into
this country illegally are now involved in criminal enterprise and activity.
And we don't have the resources or the will to deport them systemically.

Donald Trump has said we're going to move those people out, people who've
overstayed their visas. We're going to enforce the law of this country. We're
going to strengthen Immigrations and Customs Enforcements with more resources
and more personnel to be able to do that. And then Donald Trump has made it
clear, once we've done all of those things, that we're going to reform the
immigration system that we have...


 ... where people can come into this country.


 That's the order that you should do it. Border security, removing criminal aliens, upholding with law, and then — but then, Senator, I'll work you when you go back to the Senate, I promise you, we'll work you to reform the immigration system.


 He's talking about criminal aliens.


 Oh, please. Come on.


 Did you work on that one a long time? Because that had a lot of really creative lines in it.


 Well, look, I can defend — I — I — I can — I can make very clear to the American people, after traveling millions of miles as our secretary of state, after being the architect of the foreign policy of this administration, America is less safe today than it was the day that Barack Obama became president of the United States. It's absolutely inarguable.

We've weakened America's place in the world. It's been a combination of
factors, but mostly it's been a lack of leadership. I mean, I will give you —
and I was in Washington, D.C., on 9/11. I saw the clouds of smoke rise from
the Pentagon.


 I know you were. We all lived through that day as a nation. It was heartbreaking. And I want to give this president credit for bringing Osama bin Laden to justice.

But the truth is, Osama bin Laden led Al Qaida. Our primary threat today is
ISIS. And because Hillary Clinton failed to renegotiate a status of forces
agreement that would have allowed some American combat troops to remain in
Iraq and secure the hard fought gains the American soldier had won by 2009,
ISIS was able to be literally conjured up out of the desert, and it's overrun
vast areas that the American soldier had won in Operation Iraqi Freedom.

My heart breaks for the likes of Lance Cpl. Scott Zubowski. He fell in
Fallujah in 2005. He fought hard through some of the most difficult days in
Operation Iraqi Freedom, and he paid the ultimate sacrifice to defend our
freedom and secure that nation. And that nation was secured in 2009.

But because Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama failed to provide a status of
forces agreement and leave sufficient troops in there, we are back at war. The
president just ordered more troops on the ground. We are back at war in Iraq.
And Scott Zubowski, whose mom would always come to Memorial Day events in
Newcastle, Indiana, to see me, and I'd give her a hug and tell her we're never
going to forget her son and we never will, Scott Zubowski and the sacrifices
the American soldier made were squandered in Iraq because this administration
created a vacuum in which ISIS was able to grow.

And a reference to the Iranian deal, the Iranian deal that Hillary Clinton
initiated, $150 billion to the radical mullahs in Iran.


 You didn't stop the nuclear weapons program.


 You essentially...


 ... guaranteed that Iran will someday become a nuclear power, because there's no limitations once the period of time of the treaty comes off.


 Well, I think it's — I think it's a great question, Elaine, but it really does begin with us reforming our immigration system and putting the interests, particularly the safety and security of the American people, first.

I mean, Donald Trump has called for extreme vetting for people coming into
this country so that we don't bring people into the United States who are
hostile to our Bill of Rights freedoms, who are hostile to the American way
life.

But also, Donald Trump and I are committed to suspending the Syrian refugee
program and programs and immigration from areas of the world that have been
compromised by terrorism. Hillary Clinton and Tim Kaine want to increase the
Syrian refugee program by 500...


 Yeah, and so — but first, you know, let's make sure we're putting the safety and security of the American people first instead of Hillary Clinton expanding the Syrian refugee program...


 That's not — that's absolutely false.


 The Seventh Circuit...


 That's absolutely false.


 Absolutely...


 Right. Right.


 And those judges — those judges said...


 Elaine, to your point, those judges said it was because there wasn't any evidence yet that — that ISIS had infiltrated the United States. Well, Germany just arrested three Syrian refugees that were connected to ISIS.




 But, look, if you're going to be critical of me on that, that's fair game. I will tell you, after two Syrian refugees were involved in the attack in Paris that is called Paris' 9/11, as governor of the state of Indiana, I have no higher priority than the safety and security of the people of my state.


 So you bet I suspended that program.


 And I stand by that decision. And if I'm vice president of the United States or Donald Trump is president, we're going to put the safety and security of the American people first.


 But the problem with that...


 Elaine, the director of the FBI, our homeland security, said we can't know for certain who these people are coming from Syria.


 So — the FBI...


 The FBI and homeland security said we can't know for certain. You've got to err on the side of the safety and security of the American people, Senator. I understand the...


 ... the U.N. wants us to expand the Syrian refugee program...


 We're going to put the safety and security of the American people first.


 That's not his plan. KAINE: Well, he said NATO is obsolete. And, look, if you put aside — push aside your alliances, who you're going to share intelligence with? Hillary Clinton is the secretary of state who knows how to build alliances. She built the sanctions regime around the word that stopped the Iranian nuclear weapons program. And that's what an intelligence surge means. Better skill and capacity, but also better alliances.


 Can I speak about the cybersecurity surge at all?


 First, Donald Trump just spoke about this issue this week. We have got to bring together the best resources of this country to understand that cyber warfare is the new warfare of the asymmetrical enemies that we face in this country. And I look forward if I'm privileged to be in this role of working with you in the Senate to make sure that we resource that effort.


 We have an intelligence, sir. But I will also tell you that it's important in this moment to remember that Hillary Clinton had a private server in her home that had classified information on it...


 ... about drone strikes, e-mails from the president of the United States of America were on there.


 Her private server was subject to being hacked by foreign...


 We could put cybersecurity first if we just make sure the next secretary of state doesn't have a private server.




 If your son or my son handled classified information the way Hillary Clinton did...


 ... they'd be court martialed.


 Absolutely true.


 It's absolutely true.


 The United States of America needs to begin to exercise strong leadership to protect the vulnerable citizens and over 100,000 children in Aleppo. Hillary Clinton's top priority when she became secretary of state was the Russian reset, the Russians reset. After the Russian reset, the Russians invaded Ukraine and took over Crimea.

And the small and bullying leader of Russia is now dictating terms to the
United States to the point where all the United States of America — the
greatest nation on Earth — just withdraws from talks about a cease-fire while
Vladimir Putin puts a missile defense system in Syria while he marshals the
forces and begins — look, we have got to begin to lean into this with strong,
broad-shouldered American leadership.

It begins by rebuilding our military. And the Russians and the Chinese have
been making enormous investments in the military. We have the smallest Navy
since 1916. We have the lowest number of troops since the end of the Second
World War. We've got to work with Congress, and Donald Trump will, to rebuild
our military and project American strength in the world.

But about Aleppo and about Syria, I truly do believe that what America ought
to do right now is immediately establish safe zones, so that families and
vulnerable families with children can move out of those areas, work with our
Arab partners, real time, right now, to make that happen.

And secondly, I just have to tell you that the provocations by Russia need to
be met with American strength. And if Russia chooses to be involved and
continue, I should say, to be involved in this barbaric attack on civilians in
Aleppo, the United States of America should be prepared to use military force
to strike military targets of the Assad regime to prevent them from this
humanitarian crisis that is taking place in Aleppo.

There's a broad range of other things that we ought to do, as well. We ought
to deploy a missile defense shield to the Czech Republic and Poland which
Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama pulled back on out of not wanting to offend
the Russians back in 2009.


 We've just got to have American strength on the world stage. When Donald Trump becomes president of the United States, the Russians and other countries in the world will know they're dealing with a strong American president. 


 Well, that offended me.


 Well, first and foremost, Donald Trump supports our troops. Donald Trump supports our veterans.


 Donald Trump has paid all the taxes that he's — do you not take deductions? How does that work?


 Honestly, Senator. Honestly, Senator.


 I understand why you want to change — I understand why you want to change the subject.


 I understand why you want to change the subject. And let me be very clear on this Russian thing. The larger question here...


 What we're dealing with is the — you know, there's an old proverb that says the Russian bear never dies, it just hibernates. And the truth of the matter is, the weak and feckless foreign policy of Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama has awakened an aggression in Russia that first appeared a few years ago with their move in Georgia, now their move into Crimea, now their move into the wider Middle East.

And all the while, all we do is fold our arms and say we're not having talks
anymore. To answer your question, we just need American strength. We need to —
we need to marshal the resources of our allies in the region, and in the
immediate, we need to act and act now to get people out of harm's way.


 The — the safe zones would have to be — as the senator said, there's already a framework for this that's been recognized by the international community. The United States of America needs to be prepared to work with our allies in the region to create a route for safe passage and then to protect people in those areas, including with a no-fly zone.

But, look, this is very tough stuff. I served on the Foreign Affairs Committee
for a decade. I traveled in and out of that region for 10 years. I saw what
the American soldier won in Operation Iraqi Freedom. And to see the weak and
feckless leadership that Hillary Clinton was the architect of and the foreign
policy of the Obama administration...


 ... is deeply troubling to me. That will all change the day Donald Trump becomes president of the United States.


 We didn't.


 I just did. 


 And come on. Senator. Senator, that was even beneath you and Hillary Clinton. And that — that's pretty low.


 Senator, the...


 Ronald Reagan also said nuclear war should never be fought because it can never be won. And the United States of America needs to make investments in modernizing our nuclear force for both deterrence...


 ... and assurance to our allies. But let me go back to this Iran thing. I mean, he keeps saying that they prevented — that Hillary Clinton started the deal with the Iranians prevented Iran from getting a nuclear weapon.




 Well, that's not what — that's not what Israel thinks.


 You wouldn't necessarily know that.


 I know you boycotted Prime Minister Netanyahu's speech when he came before the Congress.


 You boycotted the speech. The point is, what this Iran — so-called Iran deal did was essentially guarantee — I mean, when I was in Congress, I fought hard on a bipartisan basis with Republican and Democrat members to move forward the toughest sanctions, it — literally in the history of the United States, against Iran.


 We were bringing them to heel, but the goal was always that we would only lift the sanctions if Iran permanently renounced their nuclear ambitions.


 They have not — Elaine, let me finish a sentence. They have not renounced their nuclear ambitions. And when the deal's period runs out, there's no limitation on them obtaining weapons. That...


 ... and the fact that they got $1.7 billion in a ransom payment...


 ... is astonishing to the American people.


 Well, let's — no, no, don't put words in my mouth.


 He's going...


 No, I'm — look...


 I'm very, very happy to defend Donald Trump. If he wants to take these one at a time, I'll take them one at a time.


 Don't put words in my mouth. Well, he never said that, Senator.


 Most of the stuffy you've said, he's never said.


 No, we haven't.


 Oh, that's nonsense.


 He knew that.


 But what's it got to do with Russia?


 No, he hasn't said that.


 Well, thanks. I'm just trying to keep up with the insult-driven campaign on the other side of the table.


 Yeah.


 I'm happy to defend him, Senator. Don't put words in my mouth that I'm not defending him.


 I'm happy to defend him. Most of what you said is completely false, and the American people know that.


 This isn't the old days where you can just say stuff and people believe it.


 Look, this is the alternative universe of Washington, D.C., versus reality. Hillary Clinton said her number-one priority was a reset with Russia. That reset resulted in the invasion of Ukraine, after they'd infiltrated with what are called little green men, Russian soldiers that were dressing up like Ukrainian dissidents, and then they moved all the way into Crimea, took over the Crimean Peninsula. Donald Trump knew that happened. He basically was saying it's not going to happen again. The truth of the matter is that what you have in the rise of aggressive Russia, which has had — increased its influence in Iran, that's now — now because of this deal is on a pathway in the future to obtain a nuclear — the leading state sponsor of terror in the world in Iran now has a closer working relationship with Russia because of Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama's foreign policy and $150 billion and sanctions all being lifted.

And then, of course, Syria, I mean, it really is extraordinary that — Syria is
imploding. You just asked a very thoughtful question about the disaster in
Aleppo. ISIS is headquartered in Raqqa. It is — ISIS from Raqqa has overrun
vast areas that at great sacrifice the American soldier won in Operation Iraqi
Freedom, and yet Senator Kaine still sits here, loyal soldier — I get all that
— in saying that the foreign policy of Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama
somehow made the world more secure. I mean, it really is astonishing that on
the day...


 ... on the day that Iran released four American hostages...


 ... we delivered $400 million in cash as a ransom payment for Americans held by the radical mullahs in Tehran.




 Strength. Plain and simple.


 Donald Trump — that's nonsense. Donald Trump is a strong leader...


 ... who is going to lead with American strength.


 We're going to rebuild our military. And let me — let me — this whole Putin thing. Look, America is stronger than Russia. Our economy is 16 times larger than the Russian economy. America's political system is superior to the crony, corrupt capitalist system in Russia in every way.

When Donald Trump and I observe that, as I've said in Syria, in Iran, in
Ukraine, that the small and bullying leader of Russia has been stronger on the
world stage than this administration, that's stating painful facts. That's not
an endorsement of Vladimir Putin. That's an indictment of the weak and
feckless leadership...


 ... of Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama.


 That is absolutely inaccurate.


 He said he's stronger — he's been stronger on the world stage.


 You just said better.


 Yeah, here we go. This is the grade school thing again?


 Right, this is grade school.


 Yeah. 


 Right.


 Right.


 Well, first, we need to — we need to make a commitment to rebuild our military, including modernizing our nuclear forces. And we also need — we also need an effective American diplomacy that will marshal the resources of nations in the Asian Pacific Rim to put pressure on North Korea, on Kim Jong-un, to abandon his nuclear ambitions. It has to remain the policy of the United States of America the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula, plain and simple.

And when Donald Trump is president of the United States, we're — we're not
going to have the — the kind of posture in the world that has Russia invading
Crimea and Ukraine, that has the Chinese building new islands in the South
China Sea, that has literally the world, including North Korea, flouting
American power. We're going to — we're going to go back to the days of peace
through strength.

But I have to tell you that — that all this talk about tax returns — and I get
it, you know, you want to keep bringing that up. It must have — must have...


 ... done well in some focus group. But here — Hillary Clinton and her husband set up a private foundation called the Clinton Foundation. While she was secretary of state, the Clinton Foundation accepted tens of millions of dollars from foreign governments and foreign donors.

Now, you all need to know out there, this is basic stuff. Foreign donors, and
certainly foreign governments, cannot participate in the American political
process. They cannot make financial contributions. But the Clintons figured
out a way to create a foundation where foreign governments and foreign donors
could donate millions of dollars. And then we found, thanks to the good work
of the Associated Press, that more than half her private meetings when she was
secretary of state were given to major donors of the Clinton Foundation. When
you talk about all these — all these baseless rumors about Russia and the
rest, Hillary Clinton — you asked the trustworthy question at the very
beginning — the reason...


 ... the reason the American people don't trust Hillary Clinton is because they are looking at the pay to play politics that she operated with the Clinton Foundation through a private server...


 ... while she's secretary of state.


 And they're saying enough is enough.


 The Trump Foundation is non-profit.


 Well, Thank you. Thank you. The Trump Foundation is a private family foundation. They give virtually every cent in the Trump Foundation to charitable causes.


 Less than ten cents on the dollar in the Clinton Foundation has gone to charitable causes.


 It has been a platform for the Clintons to travel the world, to have staff. But honestly, Senator, we would know a lot more about it if Hillary Clinton would just turn over the 33,000 e-mails...


 ... that she refused to turn over in her private server...


 ... and we'd have a much better picture of what the Clinton Foundation was about.


 Well, it's a wonderful question. And my Christian faith is at the very heart of who I am. I was also raised in a wonderful family of faith. It was a church on Sunday morning and grace before dinner.

But my Christian faith became real for me when I made a personal decision for
Christ when I was a freshman in college. And I've tried to live that out
however imperfectly every day of my life since. And with my wife at my side,
we've followed a calling into public service, where we've — we've tried to —
we've tried to keep faith with the values that we cherish.

And with regard to when I struggle, I appreciate, and — and — and — I have a
great deal of respect for Senator Kaine's sincere faith. I truly do.


 But for me, I would tell you that for me the sanctity of life proceeds out of the belief that — that ancient principle that — where God says before you were formed in the womb, I knew you, and so for my first time in public life, I sought to stand with great compassion for the sanctity of life.

The state of Indiana has also sought to make sure that we expand alternatives
in health care counseling for women, non-abortion alternatives. I'm also very
pleased at the fact we're well on our way in Indiana to becoming the most pro-
adoption state in America. I think if you're going to be pro-life, you should
— you should be pro- adoption.

But what I can't understand is with Hillary Clinton and now Senator Kaine at
her side is to support a practice like partial-birth abortion. I mean, to hold
to the view — and I know Senator Kaine, you hold pro-life views personally —
but the very idea that a child that is almost born into the world could still
have their life taken from them is just anathema to me.

And I cannot — I can't conscience about — about a party that supports that. Or
that — I know you've historically opposed taxpayer funding of abortion. But
Hillary Clinton wants to — wants to repeal the longstanding provision in the
law where we said we wouldn't use taxpayer dollars to fund abortion.

So for me, my faith informs my life. I try and spend a little time on my knees
every day. But it all for me begins with cherishing the dignity, the worth,
the value of every human life.


 No, it's really not. Donald Trump and I would never support legislation that punished women who made the heartbreaking choice to end a pregnancy.


 We just never would.


 Well, look, it's — look, he's not a polished politician like you and Hillary Clinton. And so...


 You know, things don't always come out exactly the way he means them.


 But I'm telling you what the policy of our administration would be.


 Yeah. 


 I'm telling you...


 Senator, you've whipped out that Mexican thing again. He — look...


 There are criminal aliens in this country, Tim, who have come into this country illegally who are perpetrating violence and taking American lives.


 He also said and many of them are good people. You keep leaving that out of your quote. And if you want me to go there, I'll go there.

But here's — there is a choice, and it is a choice on life. I couldn't be more
proud to be standing with Donald Trump, who's standing for the right to life.
It's a principle that — Senator Kaine — and I'm very gentle about this,
because I really do respect you — it's a principle that you embrace.

And I have appreciated the fact that you've supported the Hyde amendment,
which bans the use of taxpayer funding for abortion, in the past, but that's
not Hillary Clinton's view. People need to understand, we can come together as
a nation. We can create a culture of life. More and more young people today
are embracing life because we know we are — we're better for it. We can — like
Mother Teresa said at that famous national prayer breakfast...


 ... bring the — let's welcome the children into our world. There are so many families around the country who can't have children. We could improve adoption...


 ... so that families that can't have children can adopt more readily those children from crisis pregnancies.


 Because there are...


 Because there is — a society can be judged by how it deals with its most vulnerable, the aged, the infirm, the disabled, and the unborn. I believe it with all my heart. And I couldn't be more proud to be standing with a pro-life candidate in Donald Trump.


 Well, thank you, Elaine, and thanks for a great discussion...


 ... tonight. Thank you, Senator.

This is a very challenging time in the life of our nation. Weakened America's
place in the world after the leadership of Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama on
the world stage has been followed by an economy that is truly struggling,
stifled by an avalanche of more taxes, more regulation, Obamacare, the war on
coal, and the kind of trade deals that have put American workers in the back
seat. I think the best way that we can bring people together is through change
in Washington, D.C.

You know, I served in Washington, D.C., for 12 years in the Congress of the
United States. And I served with many Republicans and Democrats, men and women
of goodwill. The potential is there to really change the direction of this
country, but it's going to take leadership to do it.

The American people want to see our nation standing tall on the world stage
again. They want to see us supporting our military, rebuilding our military,
commanding the respect of the world, and they want to see the American economy
off to the races again. They want to see an American comeback.

And Donald Trump's entire career has been about building. It's been about —
it's going through hardship just like a businessperson does and finding a way
through smarts and ingenuity and resilience to fight forward and — when Donald
Trump becomes president of the United States, we're going to have a stronger
America.

When you hear him say he wants to make America great again, when we do that, I
truly do believe the American people are going to be standing taller. They're
going to see that real change can happen after decades of just talking about
it. And when that happens, the American people are going to stand tall, stand
together, and we'll have the kind of unity that's been missing for way too
long.


