 Well, I could take issue with -- with all of those things, but we don't have time. 

But I will say, we have a debate here tonight, and we will have an opportunity
to explore those areas, and I'm looking very much forward to demonstrating
that, in fact, the thing that is probably most important is having a brain,
and to be able to figure things out and learn things very rapidly.

So, you know, experience comes from a large number of different arenas, and
America became a great nation early on not because it was flooded with
politicians, but because it was flooded with people who understood the value
of personal responsibility, hard work, creativity, innovation, and that's what
will get us on the right track now, as well.


 Well, thank you, Megyn, I wasn't sure I was going to get to talk again.  


 Alright. You know, what we do in order to get the information that we need is our business, and I wouldn't necessarily be broadcasting what we're going to do.  

We. . .uh. . .we've gotten into this -- this mindset of fighting politically
correct wars. There is no such thing as a politically correct war.


And, the left, of course, will say Carson doesn't believe in the Geneva
Convention. Carson doesn't believe in fighting stupid wars. And -- and what we
have to remember is we want to utilize the tremendous intellect that we have
in the military to win wars.

And I've talked to a lot of the generals, a lot of our advanced people. And
believe me, if we gave them the mission, which is what the commander-in-chief
does, they would be able to carry it out.

And if we don't tie their hands behind their back, they will do it...[_timer
sounds_]...extremely effectively. 


 What I agree with is that we need a significantly changed taxation system. And the one that I've advocated is based on tithing, because I think God is a pretty fair guy. 

And he said, you know, if you give me a tithe, it doesn't matter how much you
made. If you've had a bumper crop, you don't owe me triple tithes. And if
you've had no crops at all, you don't owe me no tithes. So there must be
something inherently fair about that.

And that's why I've advocated a proportional tax system. You make $10 billion,
you pay a billion. You make $10, you pay one. And everybody gets treated the
same way. And you get rid of the deductions, you get rid of all the loopholes,
and...


 And I have a lot more to say about it. 


 If Hillary is the candidate, which I doubt, that would be a dream come true.  

But you know, the fact of the matter is, she is the epitome of the progressive
-- the secular progressive movement. And she counts on the fact that people
are uninformed, the Alinsky Model, taking advantage of useful idiots.

Well, I just happen to believe that people are not stupid.  And
the way I will come at it is to educate people, help people to actually
understand that it is that progressive movement that is causing them the
problems.

You know, you look at the -- the national debt and how it's being driven up.
If I was trying to destroy this country, what I would do is find a way to
drive wedges between all the people, drive the debt to an unsustainable level,
and then step off the stage as a world leader and let our enemies increase
while we decreased our capacity as a military person. And that's what she's
doing. 


 Well, what we have to stop and think about is that we have weakened ourselves militarily to such an extent that if affects all of our military policies. Our Navy is at its smallest size since 1917; our Air Force, since 1940. In recent testimony, the commandant of the Marine Corps said half of the non-deployed units were not ready and you know, the sequester is cutting the heart out of our personnel. Our generals are retiring because they don't want to be part of this, and at the same time, our enemies are increasing. 

Our -- our friends can't trust us anymore. You know, Ukraine was a nuclear-
armed state. They gave away their nuclear arms with the understanding that we
would protect them. We won't even give them offensive weapons.

You know, we turned our back on Israel, our ally. You know, in a situation
like that, of course Obama's not going to be able to do anything. I would
shore up our military first, because if you don't get the military right,
nothing else is going to work. 


 Well, I think the bully pulpit is a wonderful place to start healing that divide. You know, we have the purveyors of hatred who take every single incident between people of two races and try to make a race war out of it, and drive wedges into people. And this does not need to be done. 

What we need to think about instead -- you know, I was asked by an NPR
reporter once, why don't I talk about race that often. I said it's because I'm
a neurosurgeon. And she thought that was a strange response. And you say -- I
said, you see, when I take someone to the operating room, I'm actually
operating on the thing that makes them who they are. The skin doesn't make
them who they are. The hair doesn't make them who they are. And it's time for
us to move beyond that. 

Because......our strength as a nation comes in our unity. We are
the United States of America, not the divided states. And those who want to
destroy us are trying to divide us, and we shouldn't let them do it.



 Well, I haven't said anything about me being the only one to do anything, so let me try that. 

I'm the only one to separate Siamese twins...

The -- the only one to operate on babies while they were still in mother's
womb, the only one to take out half of a brain, although you would think, if
you go to Washington, that someone had beat me to it. 

But I -- but I'm very hopeful that I'm not the only one who's willing to pick
up the baton of freedom, because freedom is not free, and we must fight for it
every day. Every one of us must fight for it, because we're fighting for our
children and the next generation. 


 Hi, I'm Ben Carson, and I'm a retired pediatric neurosurgeon. I'm here with my wife, Candy, of 40 years, and two of my sons, and their wives. 

I stress the pediatric part of my career because the reason that I've gotten
involved in this race is because I'm very concerned about the future of our
children, and the direction of our country is one that does not portend well,
unless we, the people, intervene and retake our rightful place at the
pinnacle. 


 Typically, politicians do things that are politically expedient. And they are looking for whatever their particular goal is. 

That is not the reason that I have gotten into this thing. I'm extraordinary
concerned about the direction of this country, the divisiveness that is going
on, fiscal irresponsibility, the failure to take a leadership position in the
world.

All of those things will lead to a situation where the next generation will
not have a chance that we've had now. So I don't — I don't want to really get
into describing who's a politician and who's not a politician, but I think the
people have kind of made that decision for themselves already, and will
continue to do so as time goes on.


 Jake, can I say something about that? 


 You know, when I entered this race, all the political pundits said it's impossible; you can't do it because you're not connected with the money. And there's no way that you can raise what you need in order to compete successfully. 

I in no way am willing to get in the bed with special interest group or lick
the boots of billionaires. I have said to the people if they want me to do
this, please get involved. And we now have over 500,000 donations, and the
money is coming in.

But the pundits forgot about one thing, and that is the people. And they are
really in charge.


 Well, first of all, I recognize that we have an incredible illegal immigration problem. I was down in Arizona a few weeks ago at the border. I mean, the fences that were there were not manned, and those are the kind of fences when I was a kid that would barely slow us down. So, I don't see any purpose in having that. 

Now, what we need to do is look at something that actually works. Yuma County,
Arizona. They stop 97 percent of the illegal immigrants through there. They
put in a double fence with a road so that there was quick access by the
enforcement people.

If we don't seal the border, the rest of this stuff clearly doesn't matter.
It's kind of ridiculous all the other things we talk about. We have the
ability to do it, we don't have the will to do it.

There was one area where they had cut a hole in the fence, and to repair it,
they put a few strands of barb wire across. Well, the photographers who were
there with us, they wanted to photograph us from the side of the Mexicans, and
they went through there, and they were not physically fit people, and they
took their cameras and things with them, and shot us from the other side.

That's how easy it is to get across. And, the drugs, I mean, it goes on, and
on, and on. ICE tells them to release these people, 67,000 criminals
released...


 ...on to our property, it's ridiculous. 


 Well, I have also said, if anybody knows how to do that, that I would be willing to listen. And, if they can, you know, specify exactly how that's going to be done, and what the cost, and it sounds reasonable, then I think it's worth discussing... 


 Not exactly what I said. 


 Well, what I said, after we seal the borders, after we turn off the spigot that dispenses all the goodies so we don't have people coming in here, including employment, that people who had a pristine record, we should consider allowing them to become guest workers, primarily in the agricultural sphere, because that's the place where Americans don't seem to want to work. 

That's what I said. And they have a six-month period to do that. If they don't
do it within that time period, then they become illegal, and as illegals, they
will be treated as such.


 Can I — can I — can I just... 


 Can I correct... 


 OK. 


 My plan is not amnesty for a number of reasons. 

Number one, you know, I've talked to farmers, and they said they cannot hire
Americans to do the kind of job that I'm talking about.

And the second reason is because the individuals who register as guest
workers, they don't get to vote, they are not American citizens, and they
don't get the rights and privileges of American citizens. So that's key.

But the other thing that I want to bring up is, I mentioned something earlier.
I think it was just sort of glossed over.

I talked about the success in Yuma County, I mean, incredible success, and the
Department of Justice said, "No, we don't want to do that. That's too
successful."

We don't have to keep reinventing the wheel. All we have to do is look at
things that work. All we have to do is use a little common sense.


 It's all about America. You know, the people who say the guy who paid a billion dollars because he had 10, he has still got $9 billion left, that's not fair, we need to take more of his money. That's called socialism. That doesn't work so well. 

What made America into a great nation was the fact that we said, that guy just
put in $1 billion, let's create an environment that's even more conducive to
his success so that next year he can put in $2 billion.

And that's the kind of thing that helps us to grow. We can't grow by
continuing to take a piece of pie, and dividing it, and redistributing it.

But, I'm also looking at what doctor — at what Governor Huckabee talked
about...


 The Fair Tax. Looking at both of them, and evaluating them both, and I'm talking to the American people because one of the things we must recognize is that this country is of, for, and by the people. And, it's really time that the government get out of the way, and let the people be the ones who decide how they want to run their country.  


 Well, first of all, let me say what I actually said about raising the minimum wage. I was asked should it be raised, I said, probably, or possibly. But, what I added, which I think is the most important thing, so, I said we need to get both sides of this issue to sit down, and talk about it. Negotiate a reasonable minimum wage, and index that so that we never have to have this conversation again in the history of America. 

I think we also have to have two minimum wages, a starter, and a sustaining
because how are young people ever going to get a job if you have such a high
minimum wage that it makes it impractical to hire them...


 Jake, Jake... 


 I haven't had an opportunity to weigh in on foreign policy, and I just want to mention that when the war, when the issue occurred in 2003, I suggested to President Bush that he not go to war? OK. So I just want that on the record. 

And, you know, a lot of people are very much against us getting involved right
now with global jihadism. And they refer back to our invasion of Iraq. And
they seem to think that that was what caused it.

What caused it was withdrawing from there and creating a vacuum which allowed
this terrible situation to occur. But it is very different from what is going
on today. We're talking about global jihadists who actually want to destroy
us.

They are an existential threat to our nation. And we have to be mature enough
to recognize that our children will have no future if we put our heads in the
sand. We have to recognize we have two choices.

We either allow them the continue to progress and appear to be the winners, or
we use every resource available to us to destroy...


 ... them first. 


 Well, recognize that, you know, President George W. Bush is a great friend of ours, and we spent many wonderful days at the White House. I haven't been there in the last seven years. I probably have to have a food-tester.  

But at any rate, I didn't suggest that nothing be done. What I suggested to
President Bush is to be Kennedy-esque, in the sense that when the Russians got
ahead of us in the space race, what we did is use the bully pulpit to
galvanize everybody, business, industry, academia behind a national goal to
put a man on the moon and bring him back safely.

I said, you can do the same kind of thing. Declare that within five to 10
years we will become petroleum independent. The moderate Arab states would
have been so concerned about that, they would have turned over Osama bin Laden
and anybody else you wanted on a silver platter within two weeks.

There are smart ways to do things and there are muscular ways to do things.
And sometimes you have to look at both of those to come up with the right
solution.




 I have no argument with having a strong leader, and to be aggressive where aggression is needed. But it is not needed in every circumstance. There is a time when you can use your intellect to come up with other ways to do things. And I think that's what we have to start thinking about. 

There is no question that a lot of these problems that we have been talking
about in terms of the international situation is because we are weak. It is
because our Navy is so small. It is because our Air Force is incapable of
doing the same things that it did a few years ago.

It's because our Marines Corps is not ready to be deployed.


 There are a lot of problems that are going on, and we need to solve those problems, we need to build up our military... 


 Well, let me put it this way, there has — there have been numerous studies, and they have not demonstrated that there is any correlation between vaccinations and autism. 

This was something that was spread widely 15 or 20 years ago, and it has not
been adequately, you know, revealed to the public what's actually going on.
Vaccines are very important. Certain ones. The ones that would prevent death
or crippling.

There are others, there are a multitude of vaccines which probably don't fit
in that category, and there should be some discretion in those cases. But, you
know, a lot of this is — is — is pushed by big government.

And I think that's one of the things that people so vehemently want to get rid
of, big government. You know, we have 4.1 million federal employees. Six
hundred and fifty federal agencies and department (sic).

That's why they have to take so much of our taxes.


 Well, you know, I've just explained it to him. He can read about it if he wants to. I think he's an intelligent man and will make the correct decision after getting the real facts. 


 He's an OK doctor.  
 I'd put my mother on there. You know, she was one of 24 children, got married at age 13, had only a third grade education, had to raise two sons by herself, refused to be a victim. Wouldn't let us be victims, and has been an inspiration to many people.  


 One Nation. 


 Well, you know, I was a radical Democrat before I started listening to Ronald Reagan. And he didn't sound like what they said Republicans were. 

He sounded logical. And I hope that I sound logical also. Because when I look
at what is going on with the United States of America, I see a lot of things
that are not logical.

I see us allowing people to divide us, when in fact our strength is in our
unity. I see people exercising the most irresponsible fiscal habits that
anyone could possibly do. And hiding it from the American people, so that the
majority of people have no idea what our financial situation is.

So, when someone comes along and says, free college, free phones, free this
and that, and the other, they say, "wow, that's nice," having no idea that
they're destabilizing our position. And I think also that Ronald Reagan was a
master at understanding that a pinnacle nation has to be a nation that leads.

If we learn to lead in the Middle East right now, a coalition will form behind
us, but never they do it if we just sit there and talk about it.

Real leadership is what I would hopefully bring to America. 


 Probably in terms of the applying for the job of president, a weakness would be not really seeing myself in that position until hundreds of thousands of people began to tell me that I needed to do it. I do, however, believe in Reagan's 11th commandment, and will not be engaging in awful things about my compatriots here.

And recognizing that it's so important, this election, because we're talking
about America for the people versus America for the government.


 Well, first of all, I didn't say that the rate would be 10 percent. I used the tithing analogy.


 The rate — the rate — the rate is gonna be much closer to 15 percent.


 You also have to get rid of all the deductions and all the loopholes. You also have to some strategically cutting in several places.

Remember, we have 645 federal agencies and sub-agencies. Anybody who tells me
that we need every penny and every one of those is in a fantasy world.

So, also, we can stimulate the economy. That's gonna be the real growth
engine. Stimulating the economy — because it's tethered down right now with so
many regulations...


 That's not true.


 When — when we put all the facts down, you'll be able to see that it's not true, it works out very well.


 Since I was attacked too.


 Let me just say, if you're talking about an $18 trillion economy, you're talking about a 15 percent tax on your gross domestic product. You're talking about $2.7 trillion. We have a budget closer to $3.5 trillion.

But if you also apply that same 15 percent to several other things, including
corporate taxes, and including the capital gains taxes, you make that amount
up pretty quickly. So that is not by any stretch a pie in the sky.


 Well, there is no question that some people go overboard when it comes to trying to make profits, and they don't take into consideration the American people. What we have to start thinking about, as leaders, particularly in government, is what can we do for the average American? And you think about the reasons that we're having such difficulty right now with our job market.

Well, the average small manufacturer, whatever they're manufacturing, drugs or
anything, if they have less than 50 employees, the average cost in terms of
regulations is $34,000 per employee. Makes it a whole lot easier for them to
want to go somewhere else.

So what we're going to have to start doing instead of, you know, picking on
this group or this group, is we're going to have to have a major reduction in
the regulatory influence that is going on.

The government is not supposed to be in every part of our lives, and that is
what is causing the problem.


 Well, obviously, you don't understand my views on homosexuality. I believe that our Constitution protects everybody, regardless of their sexual orientation or any other aspect. I also believe that marriage is between one man and one woman. And there is no reason that you can't be perfectly fair to the gay community.

They shouldn't automatically assume that because you believe that marriage is
between one man and one woman that you are a homophobe. And this is one of the
myths that the left perpetrates on our society, and this is how they frighten
people and get people to shut up. You know, that's what the PC culture is all
about, and it's destroying this nation.

The fact of the matter is we the American people are not each other's enemies,
it's those people who are trying to divide us who are the enemies. And we need
to make that very clear to everybody. 


 Well, that's easy to answer. I didn't have an involvement with them. That is total propaganda, and this is what happens in our society. Total propaganda.

I did a couple of speeches for them, I do speeches for other people. They were
paid speeches. It is absolutely absurd to say that I had any kind of a
relationship with them.

Do I take the product? Yes. I think it's a good product.


 If somebody put me on their homepage, they did it without my permission.


 No, it speaks to the fact that I don't know those —



See? They know. 


 Well, first of all, I was wrong about taking the oil subsidy. I have studied that issue in great detail. And what I have concluded is that the best policy is to get rid of all government subsidies, and get the government out of our lives, and let people rise and fall based on how good they are.

And — you know, all of this too big to fail stuff and picking and choosing
winners and losers — this is a bunch of crap, and it is really causing a great
deal of — great deal of problems for our society right now.

And — and — you know, it goes back to the whole concept of regulations, which
are in everything. The reason that I — I hate them so much is because every
single regulation costs in terms of goods and services.

That cost gets passed on to the people. Now, who are the people who are hurt
by that? It's poor people and middle class. Doesn't hurt rich people if their
bar of soap goes up ten cents, but it hurts the poor and the middle class.

And Bernie Sanders will tell them that it's because of the rich. Well, I'll
tell you something: you can take everything from the top 1 percent, and you
apply it to our fiscal gap, and you won't even make a dent in it.


 About Medicare?


 Well, first of all the — the plan gives people the option of — of opting out. But I think they will see a very good option here. You know, the annual Medicare budget is over $600 billion. And there are 48 million people involved — 40 million, 65 and over, and 8 million other.

Divide that out. That comes out to $12,500 for each one. Now, I can tell you
there are a lot of private-sector things that you could do with $12,500, which
will get you a lot more than you get from this government program.

And that's really a theme of a lot of the things that I'm talking about. How
do we utilize our intellect rather than allowing the government to use its,
quote, "intellect," in order to help us to be able to live healthier and
better lives?

It was never intended that the government should be in every aspect of our
lives. This is a country that is of, for and by the people.


 I just want to thank all my colleagues here for being civil, and not falling for the traps. And, I also just want to thank the audience for being attentive, and noticing the questions, and the noticing the answers. And, this is what I am finding throughout America.

People are waking up because it is going to be us who will determine the
direction of our country. And, it was made for we the people, we are the ones
who decide who we are, and we should never give away the values and principles
that made America into a great nation for the sake of political correctness.



 Well, first of all, delighted to be here. My family's here, and my little granddaughter, who's three years old, said she wanted to come to the debate. So this is very cool.

As far as the minimum wage is concerned, people need to be educated on the
minimum wage. Every time we raise the minimum wage, the number of jobless
people increases.

It's particularly a problem in the black community. Only 19.8 percent of black
teenagers have a job, who are looking for one. You know, that — and that's
because of those high wages. If you lower those wages, that comes down.

You know, I can remember, as a youngster — you know, my first job working in a
laboratory as a lab assistant, and multiple other jobs. But I would not have
gotten those jobs if someone had to pay me a large amount of money.

But what I did gain from those jobs is a tremendous amount of experience, and
how to operate in the world and how to relate to different people, and how to
become a responsible individual. And that's what gave me what I needed to
ascend the ladder of opportunity in this country.

That's what we need to be thinking about. How do we allow people to ascend the
ladder of opportunity, rather than how do we give them everything and keep
them dependent? 


 I would not raise it. I would not raise it, specifically because I'm interested in making sure that people are able to enter the job market and take advantage of opportunities. 


 Well, first of all, thank you not asking me what I said in the 10th grade. I appreciate that. 


 The fact of the matter is, you know, what — we should vet all candidates. 

I have no problem with being vetted. What I do have a problem with is being
lied about and then putting that out there as truth. 

And I don't even mind that so much, if they do it about — with everybody, like
people on the other side. But, you know, when I look at somebody like Hillary
Clinton, who sits there and tells her daughter and a government official that
no, this was a terrorist attack, and then tells everybody else that it was a
video.

Where I came from, they call that a lie. And...

I think that's very different from, you know, somebody misinterpreting, when I
said that I was offered a scholarship to West Point, that is the words that
they used. But, I've had many people come and say the same thing to me.

That is what people do in those situations. We have to start treating people
the same, and finding out what people really think and what they're made of.
People who know me know that I'm an honest person. 


 Well, you know, when I say tithing, I'm talking about the concept of proportionality.


 Everybody should pay the same proportion of what they make. You make $10 billion, you pay a billion. You make $10, you pay one. You get same rights and privileges.

I don't see how anything gets a whole lot fairer than that. But you also have
to get rid of all the deductions and all the loopholes because that is the
thing that tilts it in one direction or another. And you have to set the rate
at an appropriate level.

Now I will say that, there are a lot of people who say, if you get rid of the
deductions, you ruin the American dream because, you know, home mortgage
deduction. But the fact of the matter is, people had homes before 1913 when we
introduced the federal income tax, and later after that started deductions.

And they say there will be no more charitable giving. We had churches before
that and charitable organizations before that. The fact of the matter is, I
believe if you put more money in people's pockets that they will actually be
more generous rather than less generous. And it's...  ... the
money that they earned.

And, the other thing is, I do care about the poor people. And in the system
that we're putting together, there will be a rebate for people at the poverty
level. But I also want to emphasize the fact that as we get the economy
moving, and I hope I get a question about how do we get the economy moving,
there will be a lot more opportunities for poor people not to be poor people
because this is America.

This is the land of dreams. And our policies should be aimed at allowing
people to realize that dream. 


 Well, putting the special ops people in there is better than not having them there, because they — that's why they're called special ops, they're actually able to guide some of the other things that we're doing there.

And what we have to recognize is that Putin is trying to really spread his
influence throughout the Middle East. This is going to be his base. And we
have to oppose him there in an effective way.

We also must recognize that it's a very complex place. You know, the Chinese
are there, as well as the Russians, and you have all kinds of factions there.

What we've been doing so far is very ineffective, but we can't give up ground
right there. But we have to look at this on a much more global scale. We're
talking about global jihadists. And their desire is to destroy us and to
destroy our way of life. So we have to be saying, how do we make them look
like losers? Because that's the way that they're able to gather a lot of
influence.

And I think in order to make them look like losers, we have to destroy their
caliphate. And you look for the easiest place to do that? It would be in Iraq.
And if — outside of Anbar in Iraq, there's a big energy field. Take that from
them. Take all of that land from them. We could do that, I believe, fairly
easily, I've learned from talking to several generals, and then you move on
from there.

But you have to continue to face them, because our goal is not to contain
them, but to destroy them before they destroy us. 


 Well, I think we should have policies that don't allow them to just enlarge themselves at the expense of smaller entities. And certainly some of the policies, some of the monetary and Fed policies that we're using makes it very easy for them, makes it very easy for the big corporations, quite frankly, at these very low interest rates to buy back their stock and to drive the price of that up artificially. Those are the kinds of things that led to the problem in the first place.

And I think this all really gets back to this whole regulation issue which is
creating a very abnormal situation. This country was — declared its
independence in 1776. In less than 100 years, it was the number-one economic
power in the world. And the reason was because we had an atmosphere that
encouraged entrepreneurial risk- taking and capital investment. Those are the
fuels that drive it.

And what we've done now is let the creep of regulation turn into a stampede of
regulations, which is involved in every aspect of our lives. If we can get
that out, it makes a big difference. And even for the average person, every
single regulation costs money. And it's shifted to the individual.

So — and it hurts the poor and the middle class much more than it does the
rich. They go into the store and they buy a bar of soap, it costs 10 cents
more, they notice it. And the middle class, when they come to the cash
register, have a whole cart full of things that cost 5, 10 or 15 cents more,
they notice it. It is hurting the poor.

Bernie Sanders and Hillary Clinton won't tell you that that's the thing that's
really hurting middle class in the core. They'll say it's the rich, take their
money, but that won't help. You can take all of the rich's money and it won't
make a dent in the problem that we're having. We have to come back to the
fundamental principles that made America great. 


 I would have policies that wouldn't allow that to occur. I don't want to go in and tear anybody down. I mean, that doesn't help us. But what does help us is stop tinkering around the edges and fix the actual problems that exist that are creating the problem in the first place.


 In the two hours of this — of this debate, five people have died from drug-related deaths, $100 million has been added to our national debt, 200 babies have been killed by abortionists, and two veterans have taken their lives out of despair. This is a narrative that we can change, not we the Democrats, not we the Republicans, but we the people of America, because there is something special about this nation, and we must embrace it and be proud of it and never give it away for the sake of political correctness. 


 Thank you, Wolf.

Please join me for a moment of silence and remembrance of the San Bernardino
victims. Thank you. You know, our country since its inception has been at war,
every 15 or 20 years. But the war that we are fighting now against radical
Islamist jihadists is one that we must win. Our very existence is dependent
upon that.

You know, as a pediatric neurosurgeon, I frequently faced life and death
situations, and had to come up with the right diagnosis, the right plan, and
execute that plan frequently with other colleagues.

Right now, the United States of America is the patient. And the patient is in
critical condition and will not be cured by political correctness and will not
be cured by timidity.

And I am asking the Congress, which represents the people, to declare a war on
ISIS so that we can begin the process of excising that cancer and begin the
healing process, and bring peace, prosperity, and safety back to America.



 First of all, let me just complain a little bit. This is the first time I've spoken and several people have had multiple questions so please try to pay attention to that. Now, as far as monitoring is concerned, what my point is, we need to make sure that any place – I don't care whether it's a mosque, a school, a supermarket, a theater, you know it doesn't matter. If there are a lot of people getting there and engaging in radicalizing activities then we need to be suspicious of it.

We have to get rid of all this PC stuff. And people are worried about if
somebody's going to say that I'm Islamophobic or what have you. This is
craziness because we are at war. That's why I asked congress, go ahead and
declare the war .

We need to be on a war footing. We need to understand that our nation is in
grave danger. You know, what the Muslim Brotherhood said in the explanatory
memorandum that was discovered during the Holy Land Foundation Trial was that,
"they will take advantage of our PC attitude to get us. :"

We have to be better than this. We have to be smarter than they are.


 I think you have to ask them about that. I don't want to get in between them. Let them fight.




 Neurosurgeon.


 Well, interestingly enough, you should see the eyes of some of those children when I say to them we're going to have to open your head up and take out this tumor. They're not happy about it, believe me. And they don't like me very much at that point. But later on, they love me.

Sometimes you — I sound like him. 

You know, later on, you know, they really realize what's going on. And by the
same token, you have to be able to look at the big picture and understand that
it's actually merciful if you go ahead and finish the job, rather than death
by 1,000 pricks.


 You got it. You got it.


 Ruthless is not necessarily the word I would use, but tough, resolute, understanding what the problems are, and understanding that the job of the president of the United States is to protect the people of this country and to do what is necessary in order to get it done. 


 First of all, I've been talking about this for over a year. We have to destroy their caliphate because that gives them legitimacy to go ahead with the global Jihad. We have to take their energy because they are — ISIS is the richest terrorist organization there is. We have to take their oil, shut down all of the mechanisms whereby they can disperse money because they go after disaffected individuals from all over the place, and they're able to pay them. That makes a difference.

As far as the command centers are concerned in Raqqa and to a lesser degree
Mosul, cut those off. Do the same kind of thing that we did with Sinjar a few
weeks ago, working with our embedded special forces with the Kurds, shut off
the supply route, soften them up, then we go in with specials ops followed by
our air force to take them over. Those are things that work.

But also, you know, this whole concept of boots on the ground, you know, we've
got a phobia about boots on the ground. If our military experts say, we need
boots on the ground, we should put boots on the ground and recognize that
there will be boots on the ground and they'll be over here, and they'll be
their boots if we don't get out of there now.


 No one is ever better off with dictators but there comes a time you know, when you're on an airplane, they always say, "in case of an emergency oxygen masks will drop down. Put yours on first and then administer help to your neighbor." We need oxygen right now.

And we need to start thinking about the needs of the American people before we
go and solve everybody else's problems. The fact of the matter is, is that the
Middle East has been in turmoil for thousands of years. For us to think that
we're going to in there and fix that with a couple of little bombs and a few
little decorations is relatively foolish.


 Well, you know, there's a false narrative that only the political class has the wisdom and the ability to be commander-in- chief. But if you go back and you study the design of our country, it was really designed for the citizen statesman.

And we need to be talking about where does your experience come from? You
know, and I've had a lot of experience building things, organizing things, you
know, a national scholarship program.

One of the things that you'll notice if you look through my life is that I
don't do a lot of talking. I do a lot of doing. And really, it says more about
a person than how much they talk. And then some people say you're weak
because, you know, you're not loud and you're not boisterous and you're not
rude. But the fact of the matter is, look and see what I've done. And that
speaks volumes about strength.


 Well, it was very interesting having an opportunity to talk to the Syrians themselves. And I asked them: What do you want? What is your supreme desire? Their supreme desire was to be settled back in their own country. I said, "What can Americans and other countries do?" They said, "Support the efforts of those who are trying to provide safety for us, including the Jordanians."

Of course, they had a brand new hospital, for instance, that was unstaffed
because there wasn't enough money to do it. But here's what's really neat. If
you go into Hasakah province in northeast Syria, that's an area that's as big
as Lebanon. It's controlled by the Kurds, the Christians and the moderate
Sunnis. And there are airstrips and hotels. You could settle a lot of people
there.

All we would have to do is be willing to provide them with some weaponry, some
defensive weaponry. And we seem to be afraid to give the Kurds weaponry. We
like to send it for some strange reason through Baghdad, and then they only
get a tenth of it.

And if we would support them, we'd have a perfect ideal there. We don't need
to set this up as we either take a bunch of refugees who will be infiltrated
with terrorists, I guarantee you. For them not to be would be terrorist
malpractice. And we need to — to choose the right choice, not these false
choices.


 Well, I definitely believe that he is unstable, and I do, in fact, believe that China has a lot more influence with him than we do. But we also recognize that North Korea is in severe financial straits, and they have decided to use their resources to build their military, rather than to feed their people and to take care of the various humanitarian responsibilities that they have.

We can capitalize upon that. You know, we should use our economic power in
lots of different ways. I think we can use that in order to keep Putin
contained, because he is a one-horse show. Energy. And we have an abundance of
energy, but we have archaic energy exportation rules. We need to get rid of
those, allow ourselves to really make Europe dependent on us and other parts
of the world dependent on us for energy. Put him back in his little box where
he belongs.

And, you know, we need to be doing lots of other things with the resources
that we have. So economic power works just as well as military power, perhaps
even better. And speaking of that, our Military needs to be upgraded. You
know, you look at things like our Ohio Class submarines, they're 25 years old.
Our minuteman 3 missiles — they are 34 years old. Our B-52 bombers — 50 years
old. You know, if we don't get the military right nothing else matters.


 Well, you know, the statement that I made last week, that I would leave the party was contingent upon whether in fact the party acts like they have in the past with a lot of subterfuge and dishonesty, or like they're going act now because I spike to Reince Priebus, and he assured me that the Washington Post writer had it all wrong, and that they're not be engaging in anything to thwart the will of the people.

That's why I got into this race, as a member of we the people, to try bring
some honesty and integrity back to the process. 


 I've been fortunate enough to travel to 58 different countries and I thank God everyday that I was born in this country. The most exceptional country that the world has ever known. And I want to make sure that we preserve that exceptionalism for the next generation. My mother told me if I work hard and I really believed in American principles and I believed in God, anything is possible. I believe that is true, and that's why I'm not anxious to give away American values and principles for the sake of political correctness.


 Well, I'm very happy to get a question this early on. I was going to ask you to wake me up when that time came. 

You know, I find it really quite fascinating some of the president's
proclamations. The fact of the matter is he doesn't realize that we now live
in the 21st century, and that war is very different than it used to be before.
Not armies massively marching on each other and air forces, but now we have
dirty bombs and we have cyber attacks and we have people who will be attacking
our electrical grid. And, you know, we have a whole variety of things that
they can do and they can do these things simultaneously. And we have enemies
who are obtaining nuclear weapons that they can explode in our exoatmosphere
and destroy our electric grid.

I mean, just think about a scenario like that. They explode the bomb, we have
an electromagnetic pulse. They hit us with a cyberattack simultaneously and
dirty bombs. Can you imagine the chaos that would ensue at that point? He
needs to recognize that those kinds of things are in fact an existential
threat to us.

But here's the real key. We have the world's best military, even though he's
done everything he can to diminish it. And the fact of the matter is if we
give them a mission and we don't tie their hands behind their back, they can
get it accomplished. 


 Neil, I was mentioned too.


 Yeah, he said everybody. 

And — and I just want to take this opportunity to say, you know, in the 2012
election, you know, we — and when I say we, Republicans — tore themselves
apart.

You know, we have to stop this because, you know, if we manage to damage
ourselves, and we lose the next election, and a progressive gets in there and
they get two or three Supreme Court picks, this nation is over as we know it.
And we got to look at the big picture here.


 Well, there's not question that we should be able to look at past president whether they're married to somebody who's running for president or not in terms of their past behavior and what it means. But you know, here's the real issue, is this America anymore? Do we still have standards? Do we still have values and principles?

You know, you look at what's going on, you see all the divisiveness and the
hatred that goes on in our society. You know, we have a war on virtual
everything — race wars, gender wars, income wars, religious wars, age wars.
Every war you can imaging, we have people at each other's throat and our
strength is actually in our unity.

You know, you go to the internet, you start reading an article and you go to
the comments section — you cannot go five comments down before people are
calling each all manner of names. Where did that spirit come from in America?
It did not come from our Judeo-Christian roots, I can tell you that. And
wherever it came from we need to start once again recognizing that there is
such a thing as right and wrong. And let's not let the secular progressives
drive that out of us.

The majority of people in American actually have values and principles and
they believe in the very things that made America great. They've been beaten
into submission. It's time for us to stand up for what we believe in.



 Wait a minute, who in their 16th month?


 OK.


 Well, there's no question that ISIS is a very serious problem, and I don't believe that this administration recognizes how serious it is.

I think we need to do a lot more than we're doing. Recognize that the
caliphate is what gives them the legitimacy to go out on a jihadist mission,
so we need to take that away from them.

The way to take that away from them is to talk to our military officials and
ask them, "what do you need in order to accomplish this goal?"

Our decision is, then, do we give them what we need. I say, yes, not only do
we give them what they need, but we don't tie their hands behind their backs
so that they can go ahead and get the job done.

In addition to that......in addition to that, we go ahead and we
take the oil from them, their source of revenue. You know, some of these —
these engagement rules that the administration has — "we're not going to bomb
a tanker that's coming out of there because there might be a person in it" —
give me a break.

Just tell them that, you put people in there, we're going to bomb them. So
don't put people in there if you don't want them bombed. You know, that's so
simple. 

And then we need to shut down — we need to shut down their mechanisms of
funding and attack their command-and-control centers. Why should we let their
people be sitting there smoking their cigars, sitting in their comfortable
chairs in Raqqa?

We know to go ahead and shut off the supply routes, and send in our special
ops at 2:00 a.m. and attack them everywhere they go. They should be running
all the time, then they won't have time to plan attacks against us.



 Well, first of all, recognize it is a substantial problem. But like all of our problems, there isn't a single one that can't be solved with common sense if you remove the ego and the politics. And clearly, what we need to do is get a group of experts together, including people from other countries, some of our friends from Israel, who have had experience screening these people and come up with new guidelines for immigration, and for visas, for people who are coming into this country.

That is the thing that obviously makes sense, we can do that. And as far as
the Syrians are concerned, Al-Hasakah province, perfect place. They have
infrastructure. All we need to do is protect them, they will be in their own
country.

And that is what they told me when I was in Jordan in November. Let's listen
to them and let's not listen to our politicians.


 Well, I would suggest a fair tax system, and that's what we have proposed. A flat tax for everybody — no exemptions, no deductions, no shelters, because some people have a better capability of taking advantage of those than others.

You know, and then the other thing we have to do is stop spending so much
money. You know, I — my — my mother taught me this. You know, she only had a
third-grade education, but — you know, she knew how to stretch a dollar.

I mean, she would drive a car until it wouldn't make a sound, and then gather
up all her coins and buy a new car. In fact, if my mother were secretary of
treasury, we would not be in a deficit situation. But...... you
know, the — the — the fact of the matter is — you know, if we fix the taxation
system, make it absolutely fair, and get rid of the incredible regulations —
because every regulation is a tax, it's a — on goods and services. And it's
the most regressive tax there is.

You know, when you go into the store and buy a box of laundry detergent, and
the price has up — you know, 50 cents because of regulations, a poor person
notices that. A rich person does not. Middle class may notice it when they get
to the cash register.

And everything is costing more money, and we are killing our — our — our
people like this. And Bernie Sanders and Hillary Clinton will say it's those
evil rich people.

It's not the evil rich people. It's the evil government that is — that is
putting all these regulations on us so that we can't survive. 


 Can I just add one very quick thing? And I just want to say, you know, last week we released our tax plan. And multiple reputable journals, including The Wall Street Journal, said ours is the best. Just want to get that out there, just saying. 


 You know, in recent travels around this country, I've encountered so many Americans who are discouraged and angry as they watch our freedom, our security and the American dream slipping away under an unresponsive government that is populated by bureaucrats and special interest groups.

We're not going to solve this problem with traditional politics. The only way
we're going to solve this problem is with we, the people. And I ask you to
join me in truth and honesty and integrity. Bencarson.com — we will heal,
inspire and revive America for our children. 


 Well, I will gladly confess that I'm the only one on this stage with no political title. You're not going to hear a lot of polished political speech from me, but you will hear the truth. And I don't think you have to be a politician to tell the truth. In fact, sometimes it's not that way...  ... and I've had more two a.m. phone calls than everybody here put together, making life and death decisions, put together very complex teams to accomplish things that have never been done before. And we are in a situation right now in our country that we have never been in before. We need people who think out of the box and can solve problems; can utilize the resources around them; very smart people, to focus on the problem and solve the problem.

The American people are terrified. That's why we have this abnormal situation
going on right now. We don't need more of the same solutions. We need
different solutions to solve the problems and to save our nation. 


 Well, I don't know about the GOP messaging, but I can tell you about my messaging. You know, need to stop allowing political correctness to dictate our policies, because it's going to kill us if we don't. 

And in the Holy Land Foundation trial in 2006 in Texas, they had a memorandum,
an explanatory memorandum that talked about the fact that Americans would be
easy to overcome and to commit civilization jihad because they were going to
be trying to protect the rights of the very people who were trying to subvert
them.

But I believe in the Teddy Roosevelt philosophy. Teddy Roosevelt said, we are
a nation of immigrants. As such, everybody is welcome from any race, any
country, any religion, if they want to be Americans. If they want to accept
our values and our laws. If not, they can stay where they are. 


 Oh, great. 

As I said before, we are a land of immigrants, but we have to be intelligent
about the way that we form our immigration policies, and that's one of the
reasons that I have called on us to declare war on the Islamic State because
we need to reorient our immigration policies and our visa policies for people
who are coming into this country because there are many people out there who
want to destroy us.

Now, I recognize that the vast majority of people coming in here probably are
not those kinds of people, but that's not good enough. If you've got 10 people
coming to your house and you know one of them is a terrorist, you're probably
going to keep them all out.

You know, we probably have to figure out a way to make sure that we keep
America safe. 


 Look, first of all, I recognize that Vladimir Putin is an opportunist and he's a bully, and we have to face him down. And I would — first of all, face him down in that whole region, the whole Baltic region. I think we need to put in some armored brigades there. We only have one or two. We need much more than that. We need to be doing military exercises if not only Estonia but Latvia and Lithuania. They're terrified by the saber rattling. I think we ought to put in our missile defense system.

I think we ought to give Ukraine offensive weapons and I think we ought to
fight them on the economic basis because Putin is a one- horse country: oil
and energy. And we ought to fight them on that level.

We ought to be helping in terms of the technology for fracking, keeping the
price low, quite frankly, because that's what's keeping him contained. So,
yes, I'd absolutely would go in if he attacked. I think on Article IV of NATO,
we would definitely protect all of our allies. 


 Well, as anyone knows who's been listening to me, you know? I'm very much against the government being involved in every aspect of our lives, you know? We last year there was an additional 81,000 pages of government regulations. If you stack that up it would be a three-story building. This is absolutely absurd. And, they've insinuated themselves into everything.

Now, as far as the renewable fuel standard is concerned, certain promises were
made, certain government contracts were issued which extend all the way into
the year 2022, and I believe that it's probably unfair to withdraw the rug
because people have invested money. People have invested a lot of energy into
that.

But, you know, we are blessed with tremendous energy in this nation, and we
need to be talking for new sources of energy. Seventy percent of our
population lives by costly. What about hydroelectric power? We can develop
that, you know? We have so much natural gas now, and we can liquify it, and we
can transfer it across the sea so we can make Europe dependent on us instead
of Putin — put him back in his little box where he belongs.

Those are the kinds of things that we ought to be doing. And, you know, take
advantage of the tremendous opportunities in energy that God has given us, not
get involved in these little petty arguments.

And we can get a lot of them out if we get the government out of our lives.



 I want to thank the people of Iowa for being so welcoming to me. Please think of our founding fathers as you listen. We the people of the United States in order to form a more perfect union, establish justice, ensure domestic tranquility, provide for the common defense, promote the general welfare and secure the benefits of liberty to ourselves and our prosperity, do ordain and establish this constitution of the United States of America. Folks, it's not too late. Enough said. 


 Well, you know, when I wasn't introduced No. 2, as was the plan, I thought maybe he thought I already had dropped out. But... 

But you know, today is the 105th anniversary, or — 105th birthday of Ronald
Reagan. His 11 Commandment was not to speak ill of another Republican. So, I'm
not going to use this opportunity to savage the reputation of Senator Cruz.


But I will say — I will say — I will say that I was very disappointed that
members of his team thought so little of me that they thought that after
having hundreds, if not thousands of volunteers and college students who
sacrificed their time and were dedicated to the cause — one even died — to
think that I would just walk away ten minutes before the caucus and say,
"Forget about you guys."

I mean, who would do something like that? Now, I don't think anyone on this
stage would do something like that. And to assume that someone would, what
does that tell you? So, unfortunately, it did happen.

It gives us a very good example of certain types of Washington ethics.
Washington ethics. Washington ethics basically says, if it's legal, you do
what you need to do in order to win. That's not my ethics. My ethics is, you
do what's right.


 Since I was mentioned...


 This is great you guys. I want you all to mention me when you say something. 

In fact, the time line indicates that initial tweet from CNN was followed by
another one within one minute that clarified that I was not dropping out. So,
what happened to that one, it is unclear. But the bottom line is, we can see
what happened, everybody can see what happened and you can make your own
judgment.


 Good evening.


 Well, thank you. You know, I was hoping to get a chance to talk about North Korea. I was the only one who didn't get to do that, and I've got stuff to say about it, let me tell you.

But at any rate, you have to replace it with something that makes sense. It
doesn't make sense. And the reason that I dislike Obamacare is because the
government comes in and tells the people — which the nation is supposed to be
centered on — that we don't care what you think, this is what we're doing. And
if you don't like it, too bad. That's a problem. And we can't afford to do
that because that will fundamentally change America.

I have proposed a health empowerment account system. Everybody gets a health
empowerment account the day they are born, they keep it until they die. They
can pass it on. We pay for it with the same dollars that we pay for
traditional health care with, recognizing that we spend twice as much as many
countries per capita and health care and don't have as such access.

We give people the ability to shift money within their health empowerment
account so that each family basically becomes its own insurance company
without a middleman; that saves you a awful lot of money. And that will lower
the cost of your catastrophic insurance tremendously, because the only thing
coming out of that is catastrophic health care.

And then in terms of taking care of the indigent, we have another whole
system, and I can go ahead and explain it, but I don't have the time, but I'd
be happy to if you give me some more time. But go to my website bencarson.com,
read about it. You can read about everything that's been discussed here in
great detail. 


 I want to say something about this, because I'm not here just to add beauty to the stage. 

You know, I've been talking about Libya for quite a long time. I think I was
the first one to start talking about it because I say we have to have a
proactive foreign policy strategy. And of course, the next place that ISIS is
going to attack to is Libya.

If you want to expand your caliphate and increase your influence, then you're
going to go to a place that's strategically located. You go north, across the
Mediterranean. You're into southern Europe. You go south, you're into Chad and
Sudan and Niger. Not to mention the fact that you have much more oil than you
do in Iraq. That's the kind of place that they're going to go to, therefore,
we need to be thinking about how do we prevent them from tacking over there.
They're already sending their fighters there, we need to be consulting with
our military experts and asking them what do they need in order to prevent
ISIS from being able to take over Libya. That's going to have enormous concede
for us.


 I would support the possibility of renewed airstrikes if in conjunction with our Joint Chiefs and our military people they felt that was an appropriate strategy.

The fact of the matter is none of us up here is a military expert, and we
sometimes act like we are, but we're not. And if we actually sit down and talk
with them and get them to understand our plan and their impression of what
needs to be done, I think we're going to make a lot more progress.


 It's the same question?


 Yes. Well, first of all, I think it would be a pretty easy contrast, quite frankly, between myself and Hillary Clinton. In one case, you have someone who is known as a deceitful individual. An individual who at Benghazi, which I will never let go, quite frankly, because I think of those two men who went up there on the top of that compound with machine guns, firing away, allowing their colleagues to escape.

And I'm sure, in the back of their mind, they were just saying, if we can just
hold on, help is on the way. But help was not on the way. When did we in the
United States not send people to help our own people? You know, this is not
who we are. 

And — I would simply make it a referendum on honesty and integrity versus
deceit and the Washington way.


 Well, you know, it's not a simple issue, and now, you know, we've gotten evidence that there can been active viruses in other bodily fluids like saliva and urine. So, this is going to be, obviously, a big deal.

Do we quarantine people? If we have evidence that they are infected, and that
there is evidence that that infection can spread by something that they're
doing, yes. But, just willy-nilly going out and quarantining a bunch of people
because they've been to Brazil, I don't believe that that's going to work.
What we really need to be thinking about is how do we get this disease under
control?

And this is where we need rapid response. We need a rapid response for ebola,
we need rapid response for Zika, there will be other things that will come up.
These are the kinds of things that the NIH, the CDC, can be very effective in.
We need to give the the appropriate support for those kind of things.


 Can I say something...


 Something about the draft. Very quickly.


 You know, 14 percent decrease in the number of people applying for voluntary military service, and I think part of it is because of the way that we treat our veterans. You know, we wouldn't be a free country if it wasn't for them, and we have 22 veterans per day committing suicide.

So, I think what we should do is have an external support system for people
once they volunteer and it should follow them throughout their career, should
follow them for three years, five years afterwards, a year before they get
out, should be working on integrating them back into society, so that they
quit on Friday and they start their new job. They should have health
empowerment accounts that are subsidized so they can go to any medical
facility and be taken care of. They can go to a V.A. if they want to.

But if we start taking care of our veterans the right way, we won't have to
ever worry about a draft again. 


 With 100 percent certainly, I will predict the winner — it will either be Denver or Carolina.


 For many months, the political class, pundits, the media, have tried to ignore or bury me. They say that politics is too complex, and too sleazy. You can't survive. Well, guess what? I'm still here, and I'm not going any place either.

And, I believe there is still a place in our country for faith, integrity, and
common sense. Hundreds of thousands of you drafted me to run for
president...... And, I am going to with the help of God, and
you, once again place the American people at the pinnacle with the government
there to serve it. 


 Well, the current Constitution actually doesn't address that particular situation, but the fact of the matter is the Supreme Court, obviously, is a very important part of our governmental system. And when our Constitution was put in place, the average age of death was under 50, and therefore the whole concept of lifetime appointments for Supreme Court judges and federal judges was not considered to be a big deal.

Obviously, that has changed, and it's something that probably needs to be
looked at pretty carefully at some point. But, we need to start thinking about
the divisiveness that is going on in our country. I looked at some of the
remarks that people made after finding out that Justice Scalia had died, and
they were truly nasty remarks. And that we have managed to get to that
position in our country is truly a shame. And we should be thinking about how
we could create some healing in this land.

But, right now, we're not going to get healing with President Obama. That's
very United Nations clear. So, I...... fully agree that we
should not allow a judge to be appointed during his time.


 No, it isn't. First of all, let me go back to your first question for me. It wasn't phrased as who gets to nominate Supreme Court appointees. Of course that's the president. So I know that there are some left-wing media who would try to make hay on that.

Secondly, thank you for including me in the debate. Two questions already.
This is great. Now, as far......as far as those 2
a.m. phone calls are concerned, judgment is what is required. And the kinds of
things that you come up with are sometimes very, very difficult and very
unique. One of the things that I was known for is doing things that have not
been done before. So no amount of experience really prepares you to do
something that has never been done before. That's where judgment comes in.

And that, I think, is a situation that we're in right now, a situation that we
have never been in before with the kinds of threats that pose real danger to
our nation, and it comes in very handy in those situations.


 Well, first of all, let me just address the Iraq question.

You know, I was not particularly in favor of us going to war in Iraq,
primarily because I have studied, you know, the Middle East, recognizing that
those are nations that are ruled by dictators and have been for thousands of
years. And when you go in and you remove one of those dictators, unless you
have an appropriate plan for replacing them, you're going to have chaos.

Now, fortunately, we were able to stabilize the situation, and it was the
current administration that turned tail and ran and destabilized the
situation. 

Now, having said that, in terms of the rules of engagement, I was talking
about, you know, Obama has said, you know, we shouldn't bomb tankers, you
know, coming out of refineries because there may be people in there, or
because the environment may be hurt.

You know, that's just asinine thinking. And the fact of the matter
is...

You know, we — obviously, you're not going to accomplish all of your goals
without some collateral damage. You have to be able to assess what is
acceptable and what is not.


 Well, first of all, let me just mention on the tax issue. Bencarson.com, go read about it, because my tax plan has been praised by Cato, by Wall Street Journal. Forbes said it is the best, the most pro-growth tax plan, and it's based on real fairness for everybody. Starts at the 150 percent poverty level, but even the people below that have to pay something, because everybody has to have skin in the game, and the millions of people can't, you know, talk about what other people have to pay and have no skin in the game.

And it deals with corporate tax rate, and makes it the same as everybody
else......everybody pays exactly the same.


 ... And, as far as Medicare and Medicaid, my main goal is to get rid of Obamacare and put the care back in the hands of ...


 Well, first of all, please go to my website, bencarson.com, and read my immigration policy, O.K.? Because it actually makes sense.

Now, the — as far as these fines are concerned, you know? Here's the big
problem. We've got all these government regulators, and all they're doing is
running around looking for people to fine. And we've got 645 different federal
agencies and sub-agencies. Way, way too many, and they don't have anything
else to do.

I think what we really need to do is start trimming the regulatory agencies
rather than going after the people who are trying to increase the viability,
economic viability of our society. Now, that doesn't mean there aren't some
people out there who are doing bad things. But I'm not sure that the way to
solve that problem is by increasing all the regulatory burden. You know, when
you consider how much regulations cost us each year, you know? $2 trillion
dollars per family, $24,000 per family, that happens to be the same level as
the poverty level...... for a family of four. If you want to get
rid of poverty, get rid of all the regulations.


 Before you ask the question, can I respond to the — you know, they mentioned my name a couple of times.


 All right. Well, first of all, you know, so many people have said to me, "You need to scream and jump and down — jump up and down like everybody else." Is that really what you want? What we just saw? I don't think so.

And you know, I — when I got into this race, I decided to look under the hood
of the engine of what runs Washington, D.C., and my first inclination was to
run away, but I didn't do it because I'm thinking about our children and the
fact that we are the United States of America. And anybody up here is going to
be much better than what's going to come on the other side. And what happened
tonight with — with Justice Scalia tells you that we cannot afford to lose
this election, and we cannot be tearing each other down. 


 Well, first of all, I'm not a politician, so I'm never going to become a politician. But here's what — here's what people need to know. People need to know that free college is not — it's a non-starter. You know, you have to look at our economic situation. We're on the verge of economic collapse and, you know, we're — it's not just the $19 trillion, but it's also the $200 trillion in unfunded liabilities.

What we need to think about is, what does that do to the average person? When
we have a debt of that nature, it causes the Fed to change their policy, it
causes the central bank to keep the — the rates low, and who does does that
affect? Mr. Average, who used to go to the bank every Friday and put part of
his check in the bank and watch it grow over three decades and be able to
retire with a nice nest egg, that's gone. That part of the American dream is
gone.

All of these things are disappearing, and Bernie Sanders and people like
Hillary Clinton blame it on the rich. They say those evil rich people, if we
take their money we can solve the problem. It's not the evil rich people. It's
the irresponsible, evil government. 


 This is the first generation not expected to do better than their parents. Some people say it's the new normal, but there's nothing normal about it in an exceptional American. I, like you, am a member of we, the people, and we know that our country is heading off the cliff.

Joseph Stalin said if you want to bring America down you, have to undermine
three things: our spiritual life, our patriotism and our morality. We, the
people, can stop that decline, starting right here in South Carolina. If all
the people who say, "I love Ben Carson and his policies, but he can't win,"
vote for me, not only can we win, but we can turn this thing around.

You know, we have this manipulation by the political class and by the media
telling us who we're supposed to pick and how we're supposed to live. We, the
people, are the only people who will determine that. And if you elect me as
your next president, I promise you that you will get somebody who is
accountable to everybody and beholden to no one. Thank you. 


 If someone had tried to describe today's America to you 30 years ago, you would have listened in disbelief. Americans know that our nation is heading off the abyss of destruction, secondary to divisiveness, fiscal irresponsibility, and failure to lead.

Marco, Donald, Ted, John, we will not solve any of these problems by trying to
destroy each other. What we need to do is be looking for solutions tonight.
It's not about us, it's about the American people. 


 I believe in liberty and justice for all. I think everything that we do should be fair. And I've already described — you know, how we can secure the border.

We need to secure all the borders, because it's not just people coming in from
South America and Mexico, but there are terrorists who want to destroy us, who
are getting across our borders fairly easily. And we have to stop that.

But in terms of the people who are here already, after we — after we stop the
illegal immigration, we need to be reasonable. And I would give them a six-
month period in which to get registered as a guest worker, assuming that they
have an acceptable record.

They have to pay a back-tax penalty, have to pay taxes going forward, but they
don't have to live underground anymore. And I think they do not become
American citizens, they do not vote.

If they want to become an American citizen, they go through exactly the same
process that anybody else goes through. I think that's the kind of situation
that is actually fair to people.

And we have other ways of — of utilizing our facilities and our talents as
foreign aid: doing things in South America and Central America and Mexico that
improve the economy there, so that they don't feel the need to come over here.
That would cost us a lot less than borrowing money from China, paying interest
on it.


 I didn't hear the first part of the question?


 OK, well, first of all, let me just mention that last year at the NALEO, the National Association for Latino Elected Officials, I was the only one of 17 Republican candidates to go there.

And the reason that I don't fear going to an organization like that is because
the message that I give is the same message to every group. You know, this is
America. And we need to have policies that are — that give liberty and justice
to all people.

And that's the way that I have fashioned virtually every policy, looking at
that. And I think that's the way the Republican Party generally thinks. We
don't pick and choose winners and losers. We are compassionate.

But real compassion is providing people with a ladder of opportunity to climb
up from a state of dependence and become part of the fabric of America. When
we begin to emphasize that, I think we will attract everybody. 


 Well, first of all, let me just add my praise to Justice Scalia. I first met him when we got an honorary degree together a long time ago. A tremendous wit and intellect.

As far as religious freedom is concerned, one of the basic tenets of this
nation, and I believe that the Constitution protects all of our rights. And it
gives people who believe in same-sex marriage the same rights as everybody
else.

But what we have to remember is even though everybody has the same rights,
nobody get extra rights. So nobody gets to redefine things for everybody else
and then have them have to conform to it. That's unfair.

And this is the responsibility of Congress to come back and correct what the
Supreme Court has done. That's why we have divided government. And we're going
to have to encourage them to act in an appropriate way, or we will lose our
religious freedom.

And as president, I would go through and I would look at what a person's life
has been. What have they done in the past? What kind of judgments have they
made? What kind of associations do they have? That will tell you a lot more
than an interview will tell you.

The fruit salad of their life is what I will look at.


 Well, first of all, healthcare is not a right. But I do believe it is a responsibility for a responsible society, and we are that. We spend almost twice as much per capita on healthcare as many other nations who have actually much better access than we do.

I propose a system in which we use health empowerment accounts, which are like
a health savings account with no bureaucrats. And we give it to everybody from
birth until death. They can pass it on when they die. We pay for it with the
same dollars that we pay for traditional healthcare with. We give people the
ability to shift money within their health empowerment account within their
family. So dad's $500 short, mom can give it to him or a cousin or uncle.

And it makes every family their own insurance carrier with no middle man. It
gives you enormous flexibility. And also, you know, if Uncle Joe is smoking
like a chimney, everybody's going to hide his cigarettes because they're all
interested in what's going on there.

Also, the — your catastrophic healthcare is going to cost a lot less money now
because the only thing coming out of that is catastrophic healthcare. So, it's
like a homeowners policy with a large deductible, versus a homeowners policy
where you want every scratch covered. One costs $1,500 a year; one costs
$10,000 a year. You can buy the $1,500 one. That will take care of 75 percent
of the people. The people who are indigent, how do we take care of them now?
Medicaid. What's the Medicaid budget? Almost $500 billion; almost 80 million
people participate, which is way too many, and that will get a lot better when
we fix the economy, which I hope we get a chance to talk about.

But do the math. Over $5,000 for each man, woman and child, and all — they
will have a lot more flexibility. What could you buy with that? A concierge
practice.


 And you could still have thousands of dollars left over. And let me just finish, because I don't get to talk that much. And, you know, let's......you can have the money that's left over to buy your catastrophic insurance. But most importantly, we give them a menu, just like we do in Medicare Part C, and they have the choices that will allow them not only to have catastrophic health care, but drug care and everything else.

It will be such a good program that nobody will want Obamacare after that, and
that's probably the best way do it, although if anybody still did, I would
still de-fund it.


 Yes, amen, amen. 


 OK. Well first of all, people say that I whine a lot because I don't get time. I'm going to whine because I didn't get asked about taxes, I didn't get asked about Israel. Hugh, you said you're going to be fair to everybody, you didn't ask me about taxes. I had something to say about that.

Now...


 OK. We have a system of taxation in this country that is horribly wrong. You know, I never had an audit until I spoke at the National Prayer Breakfast, and then all of a sudden, they came in, they said we just want to look at your real estate dealings. And then they didn't find anything, so they said let's look at the whole year. And they didn't find anything, so they said let's look at the next year and the next year. They didn't find anything and they won't find anything because I'm a very honest person.

But he fact of the matter is the IRS is not honest and we need to get rid of
them. 

And as far as Israel is concerned, you know, when I was there several months
ago, I talked to a lot of people. I couldn't find a single one who didn't
think that we had turned our backs on Israel. You know, they are a strategic
partner for us but also recognize that we have a Judeo Christian foundation,
and the last thing we need to do is to reject Israel. It doesn't mean that we
can't be fair to other people. We can always be fair to other people, but, you
know, it's like when you have a child, you know, you want to be fair to all
the children around but you have a special attention for your own child.

And now, as far as North Korea is concerned, you know, Kim Jung Un is an
unstable person, but he does understand strength. And I think we have to
present strength to him. We should be encouraging the alliance with Japan and
South Korea. We should be encouraging the placement of the THAAD, the Terminal
High-Altitude Area Defense, that seems to disturb not only the North Koreans
but the Chinese as well.

And we also need to have a much more robust naval presence in that area, and I
think we need to be developing strategic defense initiative because this man
is going to have long-range missiles, he is going to have nuclear
capabilities. We need to be able to defend ourselves. And lastly, we should
make sure that he knows that if he ever shoots a missile at us, it will be the
last thing he ever does. 


 Can somebody attack me, please? 


 My name was mentioned.


 I think allowing terrorist to get away with things is bad for America. 

You know, we have the — we have a Constitution. We have a Fourth Amendment. It
guards us against illegal and unreasonable search and seizure. But we have
mechanisms in place with the judicial system that will allow us to gain
material that is necessary to benefit the nation as a whole or the community
as a whole. And that's why we have FISA courts and things of that nature.

So absolutely, I would — I would expect Apple to comply with the court order.
If they don't comply with that, you're encouraging chaos in our system.


 Well first of all, I want people to think about what kind of leader do you want and what kind of person do you want your kids to emulate. Think about that.

Secondly, several years ago, a movie was made about these hands. These hands
by the grace of God have saved many lives and healed many families. And I'm
asking you tonight, America, to join hands with me to heal, inspire and revive
America. If not us, who? And if not now, when? 


