 Well, I'm pro-life, I've always been pro-life, and I've got a position that I think is consistent with many Americans out there in that... 
 Chris, I actually said that on your show earlier this year.  I acknowledged that. I said I actually listened to the American people. And I think people across America want a leader who's actually going to listen to them. 

I talked to border state governors and other elected officials. I look at how
this president, particularly through last November, messed up the immigration
system in this country. Most importantly, I listened to the people of America.

I believe we need to secure the border. I've been to the border with Governor
Abbott in Texas and others, seeing the problems that they have there. There is
international criminal organizations penetrating our southern based borders,
and we need to do something about it. Secure the border, enforce the law, no
amnesty, and go forward with the legal immigration system that gives priority
to American working families and wages. 


 I don't know about additional ones. We need to focus on the ones we have. You look at Egypt, probably the best relationship we've had in Israel, at least in my lifetime, incredibly important. 

You look at the Saudis -- in fact, earlier this year, I met with Saudi
leaders, and leaders from the United Arab Emirates, and I asked them what's
the greatest challenge in the world today? Set aside the Iran deal. They said
it's the disengagement of America. We are leading from behind under the Obama-
Clinton doctrine -- America's a great country. We need to stand up and start
leading again, and we need to have allies, not just in Israel, but throughout
the Persian Gulf.


 Just one second on this, though. 

We -- we spent a lot of time talking about Hillary Clinton and ---and pitting
us back and forth.

Let's be clear, we should be talking about Hillary Clinton on that last
subject, because everywhere in the world that Hillary Clinton touched is more
messed up today than before she and the president .


 It's true. 


 Well, the voters in Wisconsin elected me last year for the third time because they wanted someone who aimed high, not aimed low. 

Before I came in, the unemployment rate was over eight percent. It's now down
to 4.6 percent. We've more than made up for the jobs that were lost during the
recession. And the rate in which people are working is almost five points
higher than it is nationally.

You know, people like Hillary Clinton think you grow the economy by growing
Washington. One report last year showed that six of the top 10 wealthiest
counties in America were in or around Washington, D.C.. I think most of us in
America understand that people, not the government creates jobs. And one of
the best things we can do is get the government out of the way, repeal
Obamacare, put in -- reign in all the out of control regulations, put in place
an all of the above energy policy, give people the education, the skills that
the need to succeed, and lower the tax rate and reform the tax code. That's
what I'll do as president, just like I did in Wisconsin. 


 Well, first off, let's remember. I still remember, as a kid, tying a yellow ribbon around a tree in front of my house during the 444 days that Iran held 52 Americans hostage. Iran is not a place we should be doing business with. 

To me, you terminate the deal on day one, you reinstate the sanctions
authorized by Congress, you go to Congress and put in place even more
crippling sanctions in place, and then you convince our allies to do the same.

This is not just bad with Iran, this is bad with ISIS. It is tied together,
and, once and for all, we need a leader who's gonna stand up and do something
about it.

It's yet another example of the failed foreign policy of the Obama-Clinton
doctrine. 


 Well, I think the most important thing we can do when it comes to policing -- it's something you've had a guest on who's a friend of mine Milwaukee County Sheriff David Clark, who's talked to me about this many times in the past -- it's about training. It's about making sure that law enforcement professionals, not only in the way in to their positions but all the way through their time, have the proper training, particularly when it comes to the use of force. And that we protect and stand up and support those men and women who are doing their jobs in law enforcement. And for the very few that don't, that there are consequences to show that we treat everyone the same here in America. 


 Well first off, for the cyber attack with Russia the other day, it's sad to think right now, but probably the Russian and Chinese government know more about Hillary Clinton's e-mail server than do the members of the United States Congress.  

And -- and that has put our national security at risk. If I am president, he
won't think about that. You know, Putin believes in the old Lenin adage: you
probe with bayonets. When you find mush, you push. When you find steel, you
stop.

Under Obama and Clinton, we found a lot of mush over the last two years. We
need to have a national security that puts steel in front of our enemies. I
would send weapons to Ukraine. I would work with NATO to put forces on the
eastern border of Poland and the Baltic nations, and I would reinstate, put in
place back in the missile defense system that we had in Poland and in the
Czech Republic. 

We find steel.


 Well, thanks, Megyn. 

I'm certainly an imperfect man. And it's only by the blood of Jesus Christ
that I've been redeemed from my sins. So I know that God doesn't call me to do
a specific thing, God hasn't given me a list, a Ten Commandments, if you will,
of things to act on the first day.

What God calls us to do is follow his will. And ultimately that's what I'm
going to try to do. And I hope people've seen it in my state, even in the big
challenges I took on when I had over 100,000 protesters in and around our
capital, trying to do what I thought was the right thing.

It wasn't just how I took on those political battles. It was ultimately how I
acted. Not responding in kind. Not lashing out. But just being decent going
forward and living my life in a way that would be a testimony to him and our
faith. 


 Thanks. 

I'm guy with a wife and two kids, and Harley. One article called me
"aggressively normal."

I ran for governor because I was worried about my kids' future. Then, I took
on the big government union bosses, and we won. They tried to recall me, and
we won. They target us again, and we won.

We balanced the budget, cut taxes, and turned our state around with big, bold
reforms.

It wasn't too late for Wisconsin, and it's not too late for America. That's
why I ask for your vote.


 Good evening, I'm Scott Walker, and tonight, I want to thank and Mrs. Reagan, and the Reagan Library for hosting us. You see, in my lifetime, the greatest president was a governor from California. Ronald Reagan knew how to go big, and go bold. He understood the essence of moving this country forward, and that's what I did when I took on the status quo in my state, and the Washington based special interest. 

Now, more than ever, America needs a leader who will go big and bold again.
Someone who's been tested. I'm ready to be that leader. Thank you.



 But Jake, Jake, Jake, Jake... 


 But Jake, this — this is — this... 


 Jake, this is — this is — this is... 


 This is actually what's wrong — this is what's wrong with this debate. We're not talking about real issues. 

And Mr. Trump, we don't need an apprentice in the White House. 

We don't need an apprentice in the White House. We have one right now. He told
us all the things we wanted to hear back in 2008. We don't know who you are or
where you're going. We need someone who can actually get the job done.

And you talked about business.


 You — you — let me finish... 


 No, no... 


 You're using the talking... 


 Mr. Trump, you're using the talking points of the Democrats... 


 ... and as we all know... 


 ... that failed three times in four and a half years when I got elected, because it is working. We balanced a budget. 

You want to talk about balanced budgets? You took four major projects into
bankruptcy over and over and over again. You can't take America into
bankruptcy. That's what's wrong with the politicians in Washington right now.
They think we can take a country into bankruptcy.




 Jake, yeah, absolutely, I'll take this on, because this is an issue that's important in this race. 

Just because he says it doesn't make it true. The facts are the facts.


We balanced a $3.6 billion budget deficit, we did it by cutting taxes — $4.7
billion to help working families, family farmers, small business owners and
senior citizens. And it's about time people in America stand up and take note
of this.

If you want someone that can actually take on the special interest of
Washington, which you yourself said you were part of, using the system, we
need somebody that will stand up and fight for average Americans to put them
back in charge of their government.

I'm the one who is taking that on. I'll do that as your next president.


 Two parts to that, one on China, one back for a second on Iran. 

When it comes to China, why would we be giving an official state visit to a
country that's been involved in a massive cyber attack against the United
States? That's not just a visit, that's a 21 gun salute on the South Lawn of
the White House. It just doesn't make any sense. If we're ever going to send a
message to them, wouldn't this be the time, when they've issued this, sort of,
massive attack against us?

And, Jake, for the question, I was one of the first ones to call for
terminating the bad deal with Iran on day one. The President came after me and
said I need to bone up. You know, the President who called ISIS the JV squad
said I needed to bone up.

The reality is it's a bad deal on day one, and it's a bad deal because this
president has allowed Iran to go closer, and closer.

I'd love to play cards with this guy because Barack Obama folds on everything
with Iran. We need a leader who's going to stand up, and actually
...


 Jake, just one more moment. This is — there's something bigger to this. Now, I — like so many other governors here, I defunded Planned Parenthood four-and-a-half years ago, in a Blue State. But it's bigger than that. We did that in a Blue State, we took the money and put it into women's health, so we did exactly what we're talking about here. 

But I think the bigger issue here is we should be able to do this nationally,
and this is precisely why so many Republicans are upset with Washington. They
see the House and they see the Senate and they say why can't we pass this. Why
can't we defund Planned — put it in a spending bill.

Forget about the 60-vote rule, there's no reason — and the Constitution
doesn't call for 60 votes. Pass it with 51 votes, put it on the desk of the
president —


 — and go forward and actually make a point. This is why — 


 — people are upset with Washington. 


 So, the best way to help people see their wages go up is to get them the education, the skill they need, to take on careers that pay more than minimum wage. And, it's why we talk about it, it's all about jobs. You want to help actually get jobs, it's why on that last question we were trying to jump in on taxes. To me, it's not just about taxes, cutting taxes. I've done it as much as anyone has. 

I've cut income taxes, I've cut property taxes. In fact, property taxes are
lower today in my state than they were before we took office. The real issues
about jobs.

Ronald Reagan, our plan is based on the Ronald Reagan tax cuts of 1986. That
brought about one of the longest sustained periods of economic growth in
American history. All the things we should be talking about tonight are about
how do we create jobs, helping people get the skills and the education
qualifications they need to succeed.

That's the way you help people create jobs. It's part of our large plan to
reform the tax code, to cut taxes, to put in place an education system that
gives people the skills and education that they need. To put in place all the
above energy policy, but you start on day one with repealing Obamacare.

I'm the only one on this stage that's actually got a plan, introduced an
actual plan to repeal Obamacare on day one. I'll send a bill up to Congress,
and to make sure enact it...


 ...I'm going to sign an order that makes the Congress live by the same rules as everybody else. 


 ...That will ensure they repeal Obamacare... 


 ...Jake, Jake, Jake, I just want to address that issue because you said I didn't answer, and I did. I said, to me, I think the real focus shouldn't be — you know, Hillary Clinton talks about the minimum wage. That's her answer to grow the economy. The answer is to give people the skills and the education so they make far more than minimum wage. 

I don't want to argue about how low things are going to be, I want to talk
about how do we lift everyone up in America. That's what Reagan talked about.
It wasn't how bad things were, it was how to make it better for everyone.
That's what we've done in Wisconsin, that's exactly what we'd do as...


: That's because of Barack — that's because of Barack Obama. 


: That's because of Barack Obama. We've had a president who called ISIS the J.V. squad, Yemen a success story, Iran a place we can do business with. It's not because of George W. Bush; it's because of Barack Obama...   on that point, though, whether it's — whether we're talking about national security, foreign policy or we're talking about domestic policy, the key... 


 ... the key issue here is talking about leadership. Now, there's a lot of greater people up here, and you've heard a lot of great ideas out there. But I would ask the American people, look at who's been tested. 

When there were 100,000 protesters in my capital, I didn't back down, when
they issued death threats against me and threats against my family, I didn't
back down, when they tried to recall me, I didn't back down, and when they
made me the — one of their number-one targets last year, I didn't back down.

Give me the chance to be your president.


 I won't back down... 


 ... on any of these issues. 


 To be clear, what I said the other day was that we need to lift the political restrictions that are already in play. Barack Obama's administration has put political restrictions on the military personnel already in Iraq. 

We need to lift those and then we need to listen to our military experts, not
the political forces in the White House, but our military experts about how
many more we sent in. And we certainly shouldn't have a commander-in-chief who
sends a message to our adversaries as to how far we're going to go, and how
far we're willing to fight, so I'm not putting a troop number.

What I'm saying is lift the political restrictions. When you do that, you
empower our military personnel already there to work with the Kurd and the
Sunni allies, to reclaim the territory taken by ISIS. And to do so in a way
that allows that ISIS doesn't go back in Syria, as we were just talking about
here.

That is the fundamental problem going forward. We have a president — and
Hillary Clinton was a part of this, by the way, who has made political
decisions for our men and women in uniform. I want the men and women at home
to know, if I'm commander-in-chief, I will only send you into harm's way when
our national security is at risk. And if we do, you know you'll have our full
support, the support of the American people, and you'll have a clear path for
victory. 


 ... a lot of those people, though, and I'm going to echo what Senator Rubio just said. This is an issue where, we're talking about my state, it's thousands of manufacturing jobs. Thousands of manufacturing jobs for a rule the Obama administration, own EPA has said will have a marginal impact on climate change. 

So we're going to put thousands and thousands of jobs in my state, I think
it's something like 30,000 in Ohio, other states across this country, we're
going to put people — manufacturing jobs, the kind of jobs that are far
greater than minimum wage, this administration is willing to put at risk for
something its own EPA says is marginal (ph)...


 First of all, I got to say to Carson, Huckabee, thanks a lot for making the rest of us look like chumps up here, but, I'd pick Clara Barton. I once worked for the American Red Cross, she was a great founder of the Red Cross. 


 Harley. I love riding Harley's. 


 Well, I turned 13 years old two days before Ronald Reagan was first elected. A lot of people forget this, but just a few days before that election 1980, he was behind in the polls. 

And I think what changed things was people in America realized they didn't
want to hear what was bad about America, they wanted to know how it was going
to be better. Ronald Reagan wasn't just a conservative Republican, he was an
eternal optimist in the American people.

And I am too. So here's what I think will make America better. We need to live
in a world where our children are free, are free from the threats of radical
Islamic terrorism.

We need to live in an America where we have an economy, where everyone can
live their piece of the American dream, no matter what that dream is. And we
need to live in an America where we have a federal government that is not too
big to fail, but ultimately small enough to succeed, where we send powers back
to the states and back to the people.

That's what I did in Wisconsin. We took on the big government union bosses,
the big government special interests, many of whom came in from Washington, to
spend millions of dollars to try and take me out because we stood up to them,
we didn't back down in any of those instances.

If you give me the chance as your next president, I won't back down any day,
anyway, anyhow. I'll fight and win for you and your families every single day
I'm in office. 


