 If you think it's bad now, you should've seen it when I got there.  

The fact is -- the fact is, in the eight years before I became governor, taxes
and fees were raised at the state level 115 times. In the eight years before I
became governor, spending was increased 56 percent. And in the eight years
before I become governor, taxes and fees were raised at the state level 115
times.

In the eight years before I became Governor, spending was increased 56
percent, and in the eight years before I became governor, there was zero net
private sector job growth in New Jersey. Zero. For eight years.

So, what did we do? We came in, we balanced an $11 billion deficit on a $29
billion budget by cutting over 800 programs in the state budget. We brought
the budget into balance with no tax increases. In fact, we vetoed five income
tax increases during my time as governor. We cut business taxes $2.3 billion,
and we cut regulation by one-third of what my predecessor put in place.

And, what's happened since? A hundred ninety-two thousand private sector jobs
in the five and a half years I've been governor. We have a lot of work to do
in New Jersey, but I am darn proud we've brought our state back. 


 Yes, I do. And I'll tell you why: because I'm the only person on this stage who's actually filed applications under the Patriot Act, who has gone before the federal -- the Foreign Intelligence Service court, who has prosecuted and investigated and jailed terrorists in this country after September 11th. 

I was appointed U.S. attorney by President Bush on September 10th, 2001, and
the world changed enormously the next day, and that happened in my state.

This is not theoretical to me. I went to the funerals. We lost friends of ours
in the Trade Center that day. My own wife was two blocks from the Trade Center
that day, at her office, having gone through it that morning.

When you actually have to be responsible for doing this, you can do it, and we
did it, for seven years in my office, respecting civil liberties and
protecting the homeland.

And I will make no apologies, ever, for protecting the lives and the safety of
the American people. We have to give more tools to our folks to be able to do
that, not fewer, and then trust those people and oversee them to do it the
right way. As president, that is exactly what I'll do.


 And -- and, Megyn? Megyn, that's a -- that, you know, that's a completely ridiculous answer. "I want to collect more records from terrorists, but less records from other people." How are you supposed to know, Megyn? 


 What are you supposed to... 


 ...how are you supposed to -- no, I'll tell you how you, look... 


 Let me tell you something, you go... 


 When you -- you know, senator... 




 Listen, senator, you know, when you're sitting in a subcommittee, just blowing hot air about this, you can say things like that.  

When you're responsible for protecting the lives of the American people, then
what you need to do is to make sure...


 ...is to make sure that you use the system the way it's supposed to work. 


 There is no... 


 And you know -- you know, Senator Paul? Senator Paul, you know, the hugs that I remember are the hugs that I gave to the families who lost their people on September 11th. 

Those are the hugs I remember, and those had nothing to do -- and those had
nothing to do with politics, unlike what you're doing by cutting speeches on
the floor of the Senate, then putting them on the Internet within half an hour
to raise money for your campaign...


 ...and while still putting our country at risk. 




 You know what, Megyn, can I... 


 No, he's not lying, he's just wrong. 

I mean, so, there's a difference -- I'm the only guy on this stage who's put
out a detailed, 12 point plan on entitlement reform and here's why -- because
71% of federal spending right now is on entitlements, and debt service, 71%.
And we have spent the last hour and five minutes talking about the other 29%,
and no time on the 71%, and that makes no sense.

Now, let me tell you exactly what we would do on Social Security. Yes, we'd
raise the retirement age two years, and phase it in over 25 years, that means
we'd raise it one month a year for 25 years when we're all living longer, and
living better lives.

Secondly, we would means test Social Security for those who are making over
$200,000 dollars a year in retirement income, and have $4 to $5 million
dollars in liquid assets saved. They don't need that Social Security check.
Social Security is meant to be -- to make sure that no one who's worked hard,
and played by the rules, and paid into the system grows old in poverty in
America.

If we don't deal with this problem, it will bankrupt our country, or lead to
massive tax increases, neither one that we want in this country. 


 Chris... 


 Yeah, sure. And, I don't disagree with ending Congress' retirement program. I'm a governor, I don't have a retirement program in my state, and I don't disagree with that. But, here's the news to the American people, he's complaining about the lying and stealing. The lying and stealing has already occurred. The trust fund is filled with IOU's. We can't fix the problem just by ending Congress's retirement, that's worth about, "this" much. 

We need to go at the fundamental problem, and the fundamental problem is that
this system is broken. It has been stolen from. We have been lied to, [_timer
sounds_] and we need a strong leader to tell the truth and fix...


 Well, listen. 

You know, if we want to deal with these issues, we have to deal with them in a
way that makes sense.

I agree with what Dr. Carson said earlier. The first thing we need to do to
make America stronger is to strengthen our military, and I put out a really
specific plan: no less than 500,000 active duty soldiers in the Army. No less
than 185,000 active duty marines in the Marine Corps. Bring us to a 350 ship
Navy again, and modernize the Ohio class of submarines, and bring our Air
Force back to 2,600 aircraft that are ready to go.

Those are the kind of things that are going to send a clear message around the
world. Those are the things that we need to start working on immediately to
make our country stronger and make it better. Those are the things that we
need to be able to be doing. And as we move towards dealing with foreign aid,
I don't disagree with Senator Paul's position that we shouldn't be funding our
enemies. But I absolutely believe that Israel is a priority to be able to fund
and keep them strong and safe after eight years of this administration.



 Well, thank you, Megyn. Listen, I was born into a middle class family in New Jersey. My dad came home from serving in the Army after having lost his father, worked in the Breyers ice cream plant in Newark, New Jersey. Was the first person to graduate from college. He put himself through college at night. My mom was a secretary. 

I was appointed United States attorney on September 10, 2001. And I spent the
next seven years of my career fighting terrorism and putting terrorists in
jail.

I'm a conservative, pro-life governor in a state where it is really tough to
be both. A state like New Jersey, with lots of Democrats, but still we cut
taxes, we balanced budgets. We fought  the teacher's union.

This president has had weak leadership, which has led to bad choices. We have
got to stop worrying about being loved and start worrying about being
respected. And that's exactly how I'll lead our country. 


 Hi, my name is Chris Christie, and I'd like to you take the camera off me and put it on the audience because I'd like to ask all of you, how many of you, raise your hand, believe that in today's Barak Obama America your children will have a better life than you've had? 

You see? That's why I'm running for President. because leadership is not about
me, it's about our country. And, what we talk about tonight, it's not about
us, it's about the people in the audience tonight, because in seven short
years this president has stripped away their trust, and their faith, and their
belief that the next generation will have a better life. He's stolen that from
us, and when I'm president, I'm going to take it back. 


 Well, I know Ben wasn't talking about me, I'm sure he was talking about one of the other guys, not me.  

As far as being an outsider is concerned — as far as being an outsider is
concerned, let me tell you this, Jake, I'm a Republican in New Jersey. I wake
up every morning as an outsider. I wake up every morning with a Democratic
legislature who trying to beat my head in and fight me because I'm trying to
bring conservative change to a state that needed it desperately.

And so, everyone can talk us here about their credentials. But the bottom line
is, every morning I get up, I veto 400 bills from a crazy liberal Democratic
legislature, not one of them has been overridden. I've vetoed more tax
increases than any governor in American history, according to Americans for
Tax Reform.

What folks want in this country is somebody to go down there and get the job
done. And that's exactly what I'll do.

So, I know this much, that what the American people want to hire right now is
somebody who believes in them. And believes that they are the ones who can fix
our country. I will be the vessel through which they can fix this country, but
it's not about me.

It's about all of you. And getting this government off your back and out of
your way, and letting you succeed. I know Ben wasn't talking about me.


 Look at him smiling at me right now. I know Ben didn't mean it about me. One of these other guys, I'm sure. 


 Be honest, Ben, be honest. 


 See, Jake, it wasn't me.  


 I was — 




 She is, and so if she, based on conscience, can't sign that — that marriage license, then there should be someone in her office to be able to do it, and if the law needs to be changed in the state of Kentucky, which is what she's advocating, it should be changed. 


 And why don't we do the same thing with Planned Parenthood? 


 We elected a Republican Congress to do this. And they should be doing it, and they're not. And they're giving the president a pass. 


 I put it in the list, Dana. We should be doing these things and forcing the president to take action. 


 Let's force him to do what he says he's going to do. Now I don't know whether he'll do it or not, but let's force him to do it. 


 First of, Jake, I don't yield to anybody on how to enforce the law. I'm the only person on this stage who spent seven years as a United States Attorney after September 11th, and I know how to do this. 

The fact is though that for 15,000 people a day to be deported every day for
two years is an undertaking that almost none of us could accomplish given the
current levels of funding, and the current number of law enforcement officers.
Here's what we need to do, and I think this is where Donald is absolutely
right. What we need to do is to secure our border, and we need to do it with
more than just a wall.

We need to use electronics, we need to use drones, we need to use FBI, DEA,
and ATF, and yes, we need to take the fingerprint of every person who comes
into this country on a visa, and when they overstay their visa, we need to tap
them on the shoulder, and say, "You have overstayed your welcome, you're
taking advantage of the American people. It's time for you to go."

If we had that kind of system in place, we wouldn't have the 11 million people
we have now.


 Jake listen. While I'm as entertained as anyone by this personal back-and-forth about the history of Donald and Carly's career, for the 55-year-old construction worker out in that audience tonight who doesn't have a job, who can't fund his child's education, I've got to tell you the truth. They could care less about your careers, they care about theirs.  

Let's start talking about that on this stage and stop playing — and stop
playing the games. Stop playing —


 John — I'm not done yet, John. 


 Stop — and stop playing — and Carly — Carly, listen. You can interrupt everybody else on this stage, you're not going to interrupt me, OK? 

The fact is that we don't want to hear about your careers, back and forth and
volleying back and forth about who did well and who did poorly. You're both
successful people. Congratulations. You know who's not successful? The middle
class in this country who's getting plowed over by Barack Obama and Hillary
Clinton. Let's start talking about those issues tonight and stop this childish
back-and-forth between the two of you. 


 Listen, you know, Hugh, it's an important point. And the question is, who is going to prosecute Hillary Clinton? 

The Obama White House seems to have in interest, the Justice Department seems
to have no interest. I think it's time to put a former federal prosecutor on
the same stage as Hillary Clinton. 

And I will prosecute her during those debates on that stage for the record
we're talking about here. The fact she had a private email server in her
basement, using national security secrets running through it, could have been
hacked by the Russians, the Chinese, or two 18-year-olds on a toot (ph)
wanting to have some fun.

No one is answering that question from the Hillary Clinton campaign...


 You know why? Because she knows she's wrong, and she cannot look in the mirror at herself, and she cannot tell the American people the truth. 


 Well, Jake, I was named U.S. attorney by President Bush on September 10th, 2001. And that next day my wife Mary Pat did what she did every day, she traveled through the World Trade Center and went to her office two blocks from the World Trade Center. 

And after those planes hit, for five-and-a-half-hours after that, I couldn't
reach her, didn't know whether she was dead or alive, and we had three
children at the time, 8, 5 and 1.

And I had to confront what so many thousands of others in my region had to
confront, the idea I might become a single parent, the idea that my life and
my children's life might be changed forever.

We lost friends that day. We went to the funerals. And I will tell you that
what those people wanted and what they deserved was for America to answer back
against what had been done to them.

And I support what President Bush did at that time, going into Afghanistan,
hunting al Qaeda and its leaders, getting its sanctuary out of place, and
making it as difficult around the world for them to move people and money.

And then he went to prosecutors like us, and he said, never again. Don't
prosecute these people after the crime is committed. Intervene before the
crime happens. I absolutely believe that what the president did at the time
was right.

And I am proud to have been one of the people on the stage who was part of
making sure that what Governor Bush said before was the truth. America was
safe for those seven years and Barack Obama has taken that safety away from
us. 


 Let me say this, Jake, is that while that may have been a fine idea that Dr. Carson had, these people were out to kill us. 

I stood in that region with my family, and every time a plane went overhead in
the weeks after that, people's heads jerked to the sky because they thought it
was happening again.

You do not need to go through subtle diplomacy at that point. That could be
handled later on. What you need is a strong American leader who will take the
steps that are necessary to protect our nation.

That's what I would do as commander-in-chief in this circumstance. And that's
what President George W. Bush did in 2001. 


 Jake, you brought my issue up. 


 You know, I enjoy the interplay. Thank you, gentlemen. 

I'll just say this, first off, New Jersey is the first state in the nation
that now says if you are non-violent, non-dealing drug user, that you don't go
to jail for your first offense. You go to mandatory treatment.

You see, Jake, I'm pro-life. And I think you need to be pro-life for more than
just the time in the womb. It gets tougher when they get out of the womb. And
when they're the 16-year-old drug addict in the Florida county lockup, that
life is just as precious as the life in the womb.

And so, that's why I'm for rehabilitation, why I think the war on drugs has
been a failure.

But I'll end with this. That doesn't mean we should be legalizing gate way
drugs. And if Senator Paul thinks that the only victim is the person, look at
the decrease in productivity, look at the way people get used and move on to
other drugs when they use marijuana as a gateway drug, it is not them that are
the only victims. Their families are the victims too, their children are the
victims too, and their employers are the victims also.

That's why I'll enforce the federal law, while you can still put an emphasis
on rehabilitation, which we've done in New Jersey.


 And Senator Paul knows that that's simply not the truth. 

In New Jersey, we have medical marijuana laws, which I supported and
implemented. This is not medical marijuana. There's goes as much — a further
step beyond. This is recreational use of marijuana.

This is much different. And so, while he would like to use a sympathetic story
to back up his point, it doesn't work. I'm not against medical marijuana. We
do it in New Jersey. But I'm against the recreational use against marijuana.

If he wants to change the federal law, get Congress to pass the law to change
it, and get a president to sign it.


 No, it's not. But with Donald, it's a good start. That's really good.  

No, listen. This is an issue that — that we've gotta talk about, and we
haven't talked about yet.

71 percent of all federal spending is on entitlements and debt service. When
John Kennedy was elected president in 1960, it was 26 percent.

Harvard and Dartmouth says that Social Security's going to go insolvent in
seven to eight years. So what I say is very simple. We need to save this
program for the good people out there who have paid into the system and need
it.

And if that means making sure that folks like Donald and many of us on the
stage don't get it, that's the right thing to do because here's what Hillary
Clinton is going to want to do.

She's going to want to put more money into a system that has already lied to
us and stolen from us. This government doesn't need more money to make Social
Security solvent. We need to be not paying out benefits to people who don't
really need it.

We need to protect the people who Social Security means the difference between
picking between heat and rent and food. That's why I put out the proposal and
that's the people I'm trying to...


 I don't think Senator Rubio is a skeptic of climate change. I think what Senator Rubio said I agree with. That in fact we don't need this massive government intervention to deal with the problem. 

Look at what we have done in New Jersey. We have already reached our clean air
goals for 2020. And when I was governor, I pulled out of the regional cap and
trade deal, the only state in the Northeast that did that. And we still
reached our goals.

Why? Because 53 percent of our electricity comes from nuclear. We use natural
gas. We use solar power. We're the third-highest- using solar power state. You
know why? Because we made all of those things economically feasible.

I agree with Marco. We shouldn't be destroying our economy in order to chase
some wild left-wing idea that somehow us by ourselves is going to fix the
climate. We can contribute to that and be economically sound.

We have proven we can do that in New Jersey. Nuclear needs to be back on the
table in a significant way in this country if we want to go after this
problem. 


 I understand. No, no, listen, everybody makes a mistake every once in a while, Jake, even George Shultz. And if that's truly a representation of what he believes we should be doing, then with all due respect to the former secretary of state, I disagree with him. 


 I think the Adams family has been shorted in the currency business. Our country wouldn't be here without John Adams, and he would not have been able to do it without Abigal Adams, so, I'd put Abigail Adams on the bill.  


 You know, I've been called a lot of names by a lot of different people, and now I got to get called by names by the Secret Service? 

I would just say True Heart.


 I turned 18 in 1980, and my first vote was for Ronald Reagan. Boy, am I glad I did it. And I think the country is, too. A Christie presidency won't be about me. It will be about you. 

Tonight, you sit at home in your living room, frustrated that you play by the
rules, you pay the taxes, you do the hard things to raise your family, yet you
feel like America's generosity is being taken advantage of. That you've been —
system is being gamed, and that you're turning out to fall further and further
behind.

Our presidency — our presidency — will be about ending that, about enforcing
the law, level the playing field for everybody, and once again reward those
folks who play by the rules, and think that justice means more than just the
word. But it means a way of life.

And I will tell you this, around the world, I will not shake hands with, I
will not meet with, and I will not agree to anything with a country that says
death to us and death to Israel and holds our hostages while we sign
agreements with them.

It will be an America that be strong and resolute, and will once again be able
to stick out its chest and say, "we truly are the greatest nation in the
world, because we live our lives that way, each and every day." 


 I don't see a lot of weakness on this stage, quite frankly. Where I see the weakness is in those three people that are left on the Democratic stage. You know, I see a socialist, an isolationist and a pessimist. And for the sake of me, I can't figure out which one is which. 

But I will — but I will tell you this, the socialist says they're going to pay
for everything and give you everything for free, except they don't say they're
going to raise it through taxes to 90 percent to do it. The isolationist is
the one who wants to continue to follow a foreign policy that has fewer
democracies today than when Barack Obama came into office around the world.

But I know who the pessimist is. It's Hillary Clinton. And you put me on that
stage against her next September, she won't get within 10 miles of the White
House. Take it to the bank.


 Well, I wish you would have asked that question years ago when they broke it. I mean, let me be honest with the people who are watching at home. The government has lied to you and they have stolen from you. They told you that your Social Security money is in a trust fund. All that's in that trust fund is a pile of IOUs for money they spent on something else a long time ago.

And they've stolen from you because now they know they cannot pay these
benefits and Social Security is going to be insolvent in seven to eight years.
We're sitting up here talking about all these other things; 71 percent of
federal spending today is on entitlements, and debt service. And, that's with
zero percent interest rates.

Now, I'm the only person that's put out a detailed plan on how to deal with
entitlements. And we'll save a trillion dollars over the next 10 years. And,
here's the difference between me and Hillary Clinton. What Hillary Clinton's
going to say, and has said before is, she wants to raise Social Security
taxes.

Now, let me ask you a question everybody, and, this is for the guy, you know,
who owns a landscaping business out there. If somebody's already stolen money
from you, are you going to give them more? Or, are you going to deal with the
problem by saying, I'm going to give people who've done well in this country
less benefit on the backend. We need to get realistic about this. We're not —
the American people — forget about anything else, they've already been lied to
and stolen from. And...


 ...I'm going to go to Washington to stop it...


 ...The only way we're going to be morale, the only way we're going to keep our promise to seniors is start by following the first rule we should all follow, which is to look at them, treat them like adults, and tell them the truth.

It isn't there anymore, Mike. They stole it. It got stolen from them. It's not
theirs anymore. The government stole it, and spent it a long time ago...


 So, let's stop fooling around about this, let's tell people the truth. For once, let's do that, and stop trying to give them some kind of fantasy that's never going to come true.


 You bet they do. And if I were the prosecutor, that is exactly where they would be. The fact is that this Justice Department under this president has been a political Justice Department.

It has been a Justice Department that decided that they want to pick who the
winners and losers are. They like General Motors, so they give them a pass.
They don't like somebody else like David Petraeus, they prosecute them and
send a decorated general on to disgrace. It's a political Justice Department.

And, Jim, you know full well that in the seven years I was U.S. attorney we
went after pharmaceutical companies. We went after companies that were ripping
off shareholders. We went after companies that were doing things that were
against the law.

And to expand on Mr. Carson's — or Dr. Carson's question, let's face it, we
have laws already. We don't need newer (ph) laws. We don't need Hillary
Clinton's price controls for — again, does anybody out there think that giving
Washington, D.C., the opportunity to run the pharmaceutical industry is a good
idea, given how well they have done running the government?

So what we do, though, is, if there is somebody who is price- gouging, we have
laws for prosecutors to take that on. Let's let a Justice Department — and I
will make an attorney general who will enforce the law and make justice more
than just a word. It will be a way of life.


 John, I'll tell you something. You want to talk about moral authority. Let's talk about something that happened this week in the news. You know, the FBI director, the president's appointed FBI director has said this week that because of a lack of support from politicians like the president of the United States, that police officers are afraid to get out of their cars; that they're afraid to enforce the law. And he says, the president's appointee, that crime is going up because of this.

And when the president of the United States gets out to speak about it, does
he support police officers? Does he stand up for law enforcement? No, he
doesn't. I'll tell you this, the number one job of the president of the United
States is to protect the safety and security of the American people. This
president has failed, and when I'm in the Oval Office, police officers will
know that they will have the support of the president of the Untied States.
That's real moral authority that we need in the Oval Office.


 Carl, are we really talking about getting government involved in fantasy football? 

We have — wait a second, we have $19 trillion in debt. We have people out of
work. We have ISIS and al Qaeda attacking us. And we're talking about fantasy
football? Can we stop? 

How about this? How about we get the government to do what they're supposed to
be doing, secure our borders, protect our people, and support American values
and American families. Enough on fantasy football. Let people play, who cares?




 Well, first off, what we don't do is do what Hillary Clinton and John Kerry and Barack Obama want us to do, which is their solution for everything, put more taxes on it, give more money to Washington, D.C., and then they will fix it.

Well, there is no evidence that they can fix anything in Washington, D.C.


 What we should do is to be investing in all types of energy, John, all types of energy. I've laid out...


 No, John. John, do you want me to answer or do you want to answer? 

How are we going to do this? 

Because, I've got to tell you the truth, even in New Jersey what you're doing
is called rude. So... 

We've laid out a national energy plan that says that we should invest in all
types of energy. I will tell you, you could win a bet at a bar tonight, since
we're talking about fantasy football, if you ask who the top three states in
America are that produce solar energy: California and Arizona are easy, but
number three is New Jersey.

Why? Because we work with the private sector to make solar energy affordable
and available to businesses and individuals in our state.

We need to make sure that we do everything across all kinds of energy: natural
gas, oil, absolutely. But also where it's affordable, solar, wind in Iowa has
become very affordable and it makes sense.

That is the way we deal with global warming, climate change, or any of those
problems, not through government intervention, not through government taxes,
and for God's sake, don't send Washington another dime until they stop wasting
the money they're already sending there.


 And — and — and I — you know, Ben is absolutely right in saying that what we don't need to do is to send more money to Washington, D.C. to fix this problem.

And that's what you'll hear from Hillary Clinton — and I've already heard from
her — is that, send more money in Social Security, send more money in Medicare
taxes, send more money for Medicaid, and that's gonna solve the problem.

What we know is we're living longer. That's a blessing. It's a blessing that
we're living longer, so we have to increase the retirement age to reflect that
blessing.

We need to make sure that people understand, as Jeb said before, that if
you've done extraordinarily well in this country, do you want them to take
more out of your taxes now and think they're gonna give it back to you later?
Or would you rather take less later on?


 I want to talk to the folks at home. I want to ask you: Are you fed up with how Washington taxes you? Are you fed up with how Washington wastes your money? Are you concerned like I am that the debt and deficits of Washington, D.C. are endangering America's future?

I've got one more question for you then. Are you serious about this election?
Because if you are, you need to elect someone who's deadly serious about
changing this culture. I am deadly serious about changing this culture. I
changed it in New Jersey. I'm deadly serious about doing this job the right
way.

I'm prepared. I'm tested. I'm ready. And I want to make this our government.
For the people who say we can't do it, I say hell no, we can do it together.


 Thank you Wolf.

America has been betrayed. We've been betrayed by the leadership that Barack
Obama and Hilary Clinton have provided to this country over the last number of
years. Think about just what's happened today. The second largest school
district in America in Los Angeles closed based on a threat. Think about the
effect that, that's going to have on those children when they go back to
school tomorrow wondering filled with anxiety to whether they're really going
to be safe.

Think about the mothers who will take those children tomorrow morning to the
bus stop wondering whether their children will arrive back on that bus safe
and sound. Think about the fathers of Los Angeles, who tomorrow will head off
to work and wonder about the safety of their wives and their children.

What is Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton done to this country? That the most
basic responsibility of an administration is to protect the safety and
security of the American people. I will tell you this, I'm a former federal
prosecutor, I've fought terrorists and won and when we get back in the White
House we will fight terrorists and win again and America will be safe.



 Wolf, unfortunately, it's the new normal under Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton. The fact is that if you listen to Hillary Clinton the other day, what she said to the American people was, as regards to ISIS, my strategy would be just about the same as the president's.

Just about the same as the president's? We have people across this country who
are scared to death. Because I could tell you this, as a former federal
prosecutor, if a center for the developmentally disabled in San Bernardino,
California, is now a target for terrorists, that means everywhere in America
is a target for these terrorists.

Now, I spent seven years of my life in the immediate aftermath of September
11th doing this work, working with the Patriot Act, working with our law
enforcement, working with the surveillance community to make sure that we keep
America safe.

What we need to do, Wolf, is restore those tools that have been taken away by
the president and others, restore those tools to the NSA and to our entire
surveillance and law enforcement community.

We need a president who is going to understand what actionable intelligence
looks like and act on it. And we need a president and a cabinet who
understands that the first and most important priority of the president of the
United States is to protect the safety and security of Americans.

As someone who has done it, I will make sure it gets done again. 


 Listen, I want to talk to the audience at home for a second. If your eyes are glazing over like mine, this is what it's like to be on the floor of the United States Senate. I mean, endless debates about how many angels on the head of a pin from people who've never had to make a consequential decision in an executive position.

The fact is, for seven years, I had to make these decisions after 9/11, make a
decision about how to proceed forward with an investigation or how to pull
back, whether you use certain actionable intelligence or whether not to. And
yet they continue to debate about this bill and in the subcommittee and what —
nobody in America cares about that.

What they care about is, are we going to have a president who actually knows
what they're doing to make these decisions? And for the seven years
afterwards, New Jersey was threatened like no other region in this country and
what we did was we took action within the constitution to make sure that law
enforcement had all the information they needed.

We prosecuted two of the biggest terrorism cases in the world and stopped Fort
Dix from being attacked by six American radicalized Muslims from a Mosque in
New Jersey because we worked with the Muslim American community to get
intelligence and we used the Patriot Act to get other intelligence to make
sure we did those cases. This is the difference between actually been a
federal prosecutor, actually doing something, and not just spending your life
as one of hundred debating it.

Let's talk about how we do this, not about which bill, which one these guys
like more. The American people don't care about that.


 Wolf, you sit up here and you listen to this stuff, and you think that so many of these people have had so much to do in this national debate, they talk like they were bystanders. You know, we talk about our military being degraded over time, and yet we've had folks on this stage who've been a part of Congress who have participated in sequester; who participated in the degrading of this military over time.

And that's why I think people get so frustrated with Washington, D.C. now.
That's why they're so angry with the — the electorate is so angry with
everybody who is involved in government in Washington, D.C. Because if you
listen to the folks up here, you think that they weren't even there; they had
nothing to do with this.

This is a difference between being a governor and being in a legislature. See,
because when something doesn't work in New Jersey, they look at me, say: "Why
didn't it get done? Why didn't you do it?" You have to be responsible and
accountable.

And so on ISIS, let's be clear, the president needs to be a force that is
trusted in the world. On this I agree with Marco. You know, this president is
not trusted.

If you're the King of Jordan, if you're a part of the royal family in Saudi
Arabia and he's made this deal with Iran which gives them $150 billion to wage
a war and try to extend their empire across the Middle East, why would you
want to do it now?

But I will tell you this, when I stand across from King Hussein of Jordan and
I say to him, "You have a friend again sir, who will stand with you to fight
this fight," he'll change his mind.


 Well, I think we have to focus, Hugh, on exactly what the priorities are. And to me, what I've always said is that the president has set up an awful situation through his deal with Iran, because what his deal with Iran has done is empower them and enrich them. And that's the way ISIS has been created and formed here. ISIS is created and formed because of the abuse that Assad and his Iranian sponsors have rained down on the Sunnis in Syria.

And so when we empower Iran, this is why this president — and when Hillary
Clinton says her theory against ISIS will be just about the same as the
president, then get ready for more unrest and more murder and more violence in
the Middle East.

We need to focus our attention on Iran, because if you miss Iran, you are not
going to get ISIS. The two are inextricably connected because one causes the
other.


 Not only would I be prepared to do it, I would do it. A no-fly zone means a no-fly zone, Wolf. That's what it means. 

See, maybe — maybe because I'm from New Jersey, I just have this kind of plain
language hangup. But I would make very clear — I would not talk to Vladimir
Putin. In fact, I would talk to Vladimir Putin a lot. But I'd say to him,
"Listen, Mr. President, there's a no-fly zone in Syria; you fly in, it applies
to you." And yes, we would shoot down the planes of Russian pilots if in fact
they were stupid enough to think that this president was the same feckless
weakling that the president we have in the Oval Office is right now.



 Well, Wolf, I'll tell you what reckless is. What reckless is is calling Assad a reformer. What reckless is allowing Russia to come into Crimea and Ukraine. What reckless is is inviting Russia into Syria to team with Iran. That is reckless. And the reckless people are the folks in the White House right now. Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton are the reckless people.

And if you think that a no-fly zone is a reckless policy, you're welcome to
your opinion. But how is it working so far? As we have 250,000 Syrians
murdered, slaughtered; millions running around the world, running for their
lives. It's not working. We need to try something else. And that is not
reckless. 


 What I say to Carla is that the first job of the president of the United States is to protect your safety and your security and the security and safety of your family. And this debate stops with me in the discussions with the FBI director.

Now, listen, I'm a former federal prosecutor, I know Jim Comey. We've worked
together. He was the U.S. attorney in Manhattan when I was a U.S. attorney in
New Jersey.

And when Jim Comey gets up before Congress and says, we cannot effectively vet
these people, for me as president, that's the end of the conversation. We have
to put America's security first. 

The American people — we on this stage need to open our ears. We need to open
our ears. The American people are not whispering to us. They are screaming to
us. And they're screaming to us that it's our job to actually make this
government work.

It's so dysfunctional under Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton. It's so
ineffective. It's so ineffectual that the American people say, we don't trust
them to do anything anymore. So I'm not going to let Syrian refugees, any
Syrian refugees in this country.

And it was widows and orphans, by the way, and we now know from watching the
San Bernardino attack that women can commit heinous, heinous acts against
humanity just the same as men can do it.

And so I don't back away from that position for a minute. When the FBI
director tells me that he can vet those people, then we'll consider it and not
a moment before because your safety and security is what's most important to
me. 


 Well, what it would like is, we have one of the great advantages of America being the open society that we are. It is, we are not hiding things from the American people, but China everyday is conducting business in a way that hides things from their people.

So if they want to come in and attack all the personnel records in the federal
government, which they've done, and which — they now have my Social Security
number and my fingerprints, as well as maybe some other folks' who are on this
stage.

The fact is, they need to be fought back on. And what we need to do is go at
the things that they are most sensitive and most embarrassing to them; that
they're hiding; get that information and put it out in public. Let the Chinese
people start to digest how corrupt the Chinese government is; how they steal
from the Chinese people; and how they're enriching oligarchs all throughout
China.

They need to understand that. And we need to take those type of steps. This
president has seen personnel records of people who have sacrificed for the
American people and for the federal government stolen by the Chinese and he's
done nothing in return. This is why — this is what I said at the beginning
that this administration, Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton through their
foreign policy, have betrayed the American people, because the weakness
they've displayed has led to Putin's incursions in the Middle East and in
eastern Europe, and has led — has led to significant problems in the Middle
East as well, and the death and murder of lots of folks.


 On September 10th, 2001, I was named chief federal prosecutor in New Jersey and on September 11th, 2001, my wife and my brother who are in the audience tonight went through the World Trade Center and to their offices just blocks away from the Trade Center.

I lost touch with them for six hours that day and prayed that they were alive.
Luckily, they were sent home. But many of our friends and others in our
neighborhood lost their lives that day.

Terrorism — radical jihadist terrorism is not theoretical to me. It's real.
And for seven years, I spent my life protecting our country against another
one of those attacks. You won't have to worry when I'm President of the Untied
States whether that can be done because I've already done it. I want the
chance to do it again to protect you, your children and your families.

If you give me the chance and give me your vote I will protect America from
the wars that are being brought to our door step.


 Well, Maria, I'm glad to have heard from you in the summary of that question about what's going on in the world. Because Tuesday night, I watched story time with Barack Obama. And I've got to tell you, it sounded like everything in the world was going amazing, you know? 

The fact is, there's a number of things that the next president is going to
have to do to clean up this mess. The first thing is we have to strengthen our
alliances around the world. And the best way to do that is to start talking to
our allies again and having them be able to count on our word.

Lots of people will say lots of different things about me in this campaign and
others, but the one thing they've never said about me is that I'm
misunderstood. And so when we talk to our allies and we give them our word, in
a Christie administration, they know we're going to keep it.

Next, we have to talk to our adversaries, and we have to make sure they
understand the limits of our patience. And this president, given what Ted said
right at the beginning, he's absolutely right. It's a — it's absolutely
disgraceful that Secretary Kerry and others said in their response to what's
going on in Iran that this was a good thing; it showed how the relationship
was getting better.

The president doesn't understand — and by the way, neither does Secretary
Clinton — and here's my warning to everybody out in the audience tonight. If
you're worried about the world being on fire, you're worried about how we're
going to use our military, you're worried about strengthening our military and
you're worried most of all about keeping your homes and your families safe and
secure, you cannot give Hillary Clinton a third term of Barack Obama's
leadership.

I will not do that. If I'm the nominee, she won't get within 10 miles of the
White House. 


 MIlitary action, Maria, would be used when it was absolutely necessary to protect American lives and protect American interests around the world. We are not the world's policeman, but we need to stand up and be ready.

And the problem, Maria, is that the military is not ready, either. We need to
rebuild our military, and this president has let it diminish to a point where
tinpot dictators like the mullahs in Iran are taking our Navy ships. It is
disgraceful, and in a Christie administration, they would know much, much
better than to do that. 


 I stood on the stage and watched Marco in rather indignantly, look at Governor Bush and say, someone told you that because we're running for the same office, that criticizing me will get you to that office. 

It appears that the same someone who has been whispering in old Marco's ear
too. 

So the indignation that you carry on, some of the stuff, you have to also own
then. So let's set the facts straight. First of all, I didn't support Sonia
Sotomayor. Secondly, I never wrote a check to Planned Parenthood.

Third, if you look at my record as governor of New Jersey, I have vetoed a
50-caliber rifle ban. I have vetoed a reduction this clip size. I vetoed a
statewide I.D. system for gun owners and I pardoned, six out-of-state folks
who came through our state and were arrested for owning a gun legally in
another state so they never have to face charges.

And on Common Core, Common Core has been eliminated in New Jersey. So listen,
this is the difference between being a governor and a senator. See when you're
a senator, what you get to do is just talk and talk and talk. And you talk so
much that nobody can ever keep up with what you're saying is accurate or not.

When you're a governor, you're held accountable for everything you do. And the
people of New Jersey, I've seen it. 


 And the last piece is this. I like Marco too, and two years ago, he called me a conservative reformer that New Jersey needed. That was before he was running against me. Now that he is, he's changed his tune.

I'm never going to change my tune. I like Marco Rubio. He's a good guy, a
smart guy, and he would be a heck of a lot better president than Hillary
Rodham Clinton would ever be. 


 No, absolutely not. The president wants to do things without working with his Congress, without working with the legislature, and without getting the consent of the American people. And the fact is that that's not a democracy. That's a dictatorship. And we need to very, very concerned about that.

See, here's the thing. I don't think the founders put the Second Amendment as
number two by accident. I don't think they dropped all the amendments into a
hat and picked them out of a hat. I think they made the Second Amendment the
second amendment because they thought it was just that important.

The fact is in New Jersey, what we have done is to make it easier now to get a
conceal and carry permit. We have made it easier to do that, not harder. And
the way we've done it properly through regulatory action, not by signing
unconstitutional executive orders. This guy is a petulant child. That's what
he is. I mean, you know...... the fact is, Neil, let's think about
— let's think about — and I want to maybe — I hope the president is watching
tonight, because here's what I'd like to tell him.

Mr. President, we're not against you. We're against your policies. When you
became president, you had a Democratic Congress and a filibuster-proof
Democratic Senate. You had only 21 Republican governors in this country. And
now after seven years of your policies, we have the biggest majority we've had
since the 1920s in the House; a Republican majority in the Senate; and 31 out
of 50 Republican governors.

The American people have rejected your agenda and now you're trying to go
around it. That's not right. It's not constitutional. And we are going to kick
your rear end out of the White House come this fall. 


 Maria, you look at what this president and his secretary of state, Secretary of State Clinton, has done to get us in this spot. You think about it — this is the president who said, along with his secretary of state — drew a red line in Syria, said, if Assad uses chemical weapons against his people, that we're going to attack.

He used chemical weapons, he's killed, now, over a quarter of a million of his
own people, and this president has done nothing. In fact, he's done worse than
nothing.

This president — and, by the way, Secretary Clinton, who called Assad a
reformer — she called Assad a reformer. Now, the fact is, what this president
has done is invited Russia to play an even bigger role, bring in Vladimir
Putin to negotiate getting those chemical weapons back from Assad, yet what do
we have today?

We have the Russians and the Iranians working together, not to fight ISIS, but
to prop up Assad. The fact of the matter is we're not going to have peace — we
are not going to have peace in Syria. We're not going to be able to rebuild it
unless we put a no-fly zone there, make it safe for those folks so we don't
have to be talking about Syrian refugees anymore.

The Syrians should stay in Syria. They shouldn't be going to Europe. And
here's the last piece......you're not going to have peace in Syria
with Assad in charge. You're simply not. And so Senator Graham is right about
this.

And if we want to try to rebuild the coalition, as Governor Kasich was saying
before, then what we better do is to get to the Arab countries that believe
that ISIS is a threat, not only to them, but to us and to world peace, and
bring them together.

And believe me, Assad is not worth it. And if you're going to leave this to
Hillary Clinton, the person who gave us this foreign policy, the architect of
it, and you're going to give her another four years, that's why I'm speaking
out as strongly as I am about that.

Hillary Clinton cannot be president. It will lead to even greater war in this
world. And remember this, after Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama have had
nearly 8 years, we have fewer democracies in the world than we had when they
started.

That makes the world less peaceful, less safe. In my administration, we will
help to make sure we bring people together in the Middle East, and we will
fight ISIS and defeat them.


 Now Maria, listen. I said right from the beginning that we should take no Syrian refugees of any kind. And the reason I said that is because the FBI director told the American people, told Congress, that he could not guarantee he could vet them and it would be safe. That's the end of the conversation.

I can tell you, after spending seven years as a former federal prosecutor,
right after 9/11, dealing with this issue. Here's the way you need to deal
with it. You can't just ban all Muslims. You have to ban radical Islamic
jihadists. You have to ban the people who are trying to hurt us.

The only way to figure that out is to go back to getting the intelligence
community the funding and the tools that it needs to be able to keep America
safe.



And this summer, we didn't do that. We took it away from the NSA, it was a bad
decision by the president. Bad by those in the Senate who voted for it and if
I'm president, we'll make our intelligence community strong, and won't have to
keep everybody out, we're just going to keep the bad folk out and make sure
they don't harm us.


 Well, I'm glad you asked that, Maria. Here's — here's our plan. We've all been talking about tax reforms tonight, and paying for infrastructure is caught right up in tax reform.

If you reform the corporate tax system in this country, which, as was
mentioned before, is the highest rate in the world — and we double tax, as you
know.

And what that's led to over $2 trillion of American companies' monies that are
being kept offshore, because they don't want to pay the second tax. And who
can blame them? They pay tax once overseas. They don't want to pay 35 percent
tax on the way back.

So beside reforming that tax code, bringing it down to 25 percent and
eliminating those special-interest loopholes that the lobbyists and the
lawyers and the accountants have given — bring that rate down to 25 percent,
but also, a one-time repatriation of that money.

Bring the money — the $2 trillion — back to the United States. We'll tax it,
that one time, at 8.75 percent, because 35 percent of zero is zero, but 8.75
percent of $2 trillion is a lot of money. And I would then dedicate that money
to rebuilding infrastructure here in this country.

It would not necessitate us raising any taxes. It would bring the money back
into the United States to help build jobs by American companies and get our
economy moving again, and growing as a higher rate, and it would rebuild those
roads and bridges and tunnels that you were talking about. And — and — and the
last piece of this, Maria, is this. You know, the fact is that this president
has penalized corporations in America. He's penalized — and doesn't
understand. In fact, what that hurts is hurt hardworking taxpayers.

You've seen middle-class wages go backwards $3,700 during the Obama
administration. That's wrong for hardworking taxpayers in this country. We'd
rebuild infrastructure that would also create jobs in this country, and we'd
work with the states to do it the right way, to do it more efficiently and
more effectively.

And remember this — I'm credible on this for this reason: Americans for Tax
Reform says that I've vetoed more tax increases than any governor in American
history. We don't need to raise taxes to get this done.

We need to make the government run smarter and better, and reform this
corporate tax system, bring that money back to the United States to build jobs
and rebuild our infrastructure, and we need to use it also to protect our grid
from terrorists.

All of those things are important, and all those things would happen in a
Christie administration.


 Maria, I'd like to interrupt this  on the floor of the Senate to actually answer the question you asked, which was on entitlements. Do you remember that, everybody? This was a question on entitlements. 

And the reason — and the reason......no, you already had your
chance, Marco, and you blew it. Here's the thing.  The fact is,
the reason why...


 ... the fact is — the fact is the reason why that no one wants to answer entitlements up here is because it's hard. It's a hard problem. And I'm the only one up on this stage who back in April put forward a detailed entitlement reform plan that will save over $1 trillion, save Social Security, save Medicare, and avoid this — avoid what Hillary Rodham Clinton will do to you.

Because what she will do is come in and she will raise Social Security taxes.
Bernie Sanders has already said it. And she is just one or two more poll drops
down from even moving further left than she's moved already to get to the left
of Bernie on this.

We have seniors out there who are scared to death because this Congress — this
one that we have right now, just stole $150 billion from the Social Security
retirement fund to give it to the Social Security disability fund. A
Republican Congress did that.

And the fact is it was wrong. And they consorted with Barack Obama to steal
from Social Security. We need to reform Social Security. Mine is the only plan
that saves over $1 trillion and that's why I'm answering your question.


 Well, first off, let's face it, the FBI director James Comey was a friend of mine who I worked with as U.S. Attorney of New Jersey. He was the U.S. Attorney in Manhattan. He said, "there's a chill wind blowing through law enforcement in this country." Here's why, the president of the United States and both his attorney's general, they give the benefit of the doubt to the criminal, not to the police officers.

That's the truth of the matter and you see it every time with this president.
Every time he's got a chance, going all the way back to — remember that Great
Beer Summit he had after he messed up that time. This is a guy who just
believes that law enforcement are the bad guys.

Now, I for seven years was the U.S. Attorney of New Jersey. I worked hard with
not only federal agents but with police officers and here's the problem,
sanctuary cities is part of the problem in this country. That's where crime is
happening in these cities where they don't enforce the immigration laws. And
this president turns his back — this president doesn't enforce the marijuana
laws in this country because he doesn't agree with them.

And he allows states to go ahead and do whatever they want on a substance
that's illegal. This president allows lawlessness throughout this country.
Here's what I would do Neil, I would appoint an Attorney General and I would
have one very brief conversation with that Attorney General. I'd say,
"General, enforce the law against everyone justly, fairly, and aggressively.
Make our streets safe again. Make our police officers proud of what they do
but more important than that, let them know how proud we are of them."

We do that, this country would be safe and secure again not only from
criminals but from the terrorist who threaten us as well. I'm the only person
on this stage who's done that and we will get it done as President of the
United States.


 Maria, Neil, thank you for a great  tonight.

When I think about the folks who are out there at home tonight watching, and I
think about what they had to watch this week — the spectacle they had to watch
on the floor of the House of Representatives, with the president of the United
States, who talked a fantasy land about the way they're feeling.

They know that this country is not respected around the world anymore. They
know that this country is pushing the middle class, the hardworking taxpayers,
backwards, and they saw a president who doesn't understand their pain, and
doesn't have any plan for getting away from it.

I love this country. It's the most exceptional country the world has ever
known. We need someone to fight for the people. We need a fighter for this
country again.

I've lived my whole life fighting — fighting for things that I believe in,
fighting for justice and to protect people from crime and terrorism, fighting
to stand up for folks who have not had enough and need an opportunity to get
more, and to stand up and fight against the special interests.

But here's the best way that we're going to make America much more
exceptional: it is to make sure we put someone on that stage in September who
will fight Hillary Clinton and make sure she never, ever gets in the White
House again.

I am the man who can bring us together to do that, and I ask for your vote.



 They're not wrong. But what's wrong is your premise in the question. You can do both. There is no reason why you can't stand for principles, go and fight for them and be able also, to have to get things done in government.

You know, what people are frustrated about in Washington, D.C.., and I know
the folks out there tonight are incredibly frustrated because what they see is
a government that doesn't work for them. You know, for the 45-year-old
construction worker out there, who is having a hard time making things meet.

He's lost $4,000 in the last seven years in his income because of this
administration. He doesn't want to hear the talk about politics Megyn and who
is establishment and who is grassroots. And who's compromised and who is
principled. What he wants is something to get done.

And that's the difference between being a governor and having done that for
the last six years in New Jersey and being someone who has never had to be
responsible for any of those decisions. Barack Obama was never responsible for
those decisions.

Hillary Clinton has never been responsible for those kind of decisions where
they were held accountable. I've been held accountable for six years as the
governor of New Jersey and with a Democratic legislature, I've gotten
conservative things done. That's exactly what I'll do as president of the
United States. 


 Well, let me say that I do believe that the vote on NSA made the country less safe. Well, let me tell you what the country should really be worried about. I watched that town hall meeting with the Democrats the other night, and I heard Hillary Clinton asked a direct question by an Iowan, and that's what Iowans like to do. They like to ask direct questions.

And, they asked about her email situation. And, here's what she said to the
American people. She did it for convenience. For her convenience. She put
America's secrets at risk for her convenience. She put American intelligence
officers at risk for her convenience. She put American strategy at risk for
her convenience.

Let me tell you who's not qualified to be President of the United States,
Chris. Hillary Rodham Clinton did that to our country. She is not qualified to
be President of the United States. 

The fact is what we need is someone on that stage who has been tested, who has
been through it, who has made decisions, who has sit in the chair of
consequence and can prosecute the case against Hillary Clinton on... [_bell
rings_] ... that stage, and that is exactly what I am ready to do.



 Talk about what? I...


 Well, because you can do it without profiling, Megyn, when you do it on the facts. What those facts knew was that these folks had weapons. They knew that they were talking about trying to take our country and attack it.

That's not profiling, that's law enforcement. And that's the difference
between somebody who knows how to do this and somebody who's never done it
before.


 They knew they were talking about the issues of attacking people, Megyn. They knew that.




 Listen, I think that what people should do is use their common sense. And the fact is, let law enforcement make those decisions. I've told people that from the time I was U.S. attorney 13 years ago.

It's not for them to make those decisions about whether or not something is
legal or illegal, or profiling or not. You see something that's suspicious,
you call law enforcement and let law enforcement make those decisions.

That's what should be done. That can be done. That can be done without
profiling people. What that is, is just common sense. They thought something
was wrong.

And here's the problem in this country right now. The problem is that Barack
Obama has made law enforcement the enemy, Hillary Clinton has made law
enforcement the enemy.

They're not supporting our law enforcement officers, it's making everybody
nervous to get out of their cars, if you're a law enforcement officer. It's
making... ... everybody nervous to get out of their cars if
you're a law enforcement officer. 

It's making people in neighborhoods nervous to go to law enforcement. As
president, I will support law enforcement and we'll stop radical terrorist
attacks in this country by supporting our intelligence community and law
enforcement community. 


 Yes. You want one? 


 How about one that I've done in New Jersey for the last six years. That's get rid of Planned Parenthood funding from the United States of America. 


 Bigger than that? Let me tell you something, when you see thousands upon thousands upon thousands of children being murdered in the womb, I can't think of anything better than that. 


 Megyn? 


 I want to ask the people of the audience. Like, I'm standing here, I — I watched the video of Senator Cruz. I watched the video of Senator Rubio. I heard what they said. And this is why you need to send someone from outside of Washington to Washington. 

I feel like...  ... I feel like I need — I feel like I need a
Washington to English dictionary converter, right? 

I mean, I heard what they both said, I saw it on the video. And the fact is
this is what makes a difference when you're a governor. You can change your
mind. Ted can change his mind. Marco can change his mind. It's perfectly legal
in this country to change your mind. But when you're a governor, you have to
admit it. You can't hide behind parliamentary tricks. That's the difference,
and that's the kind of leader we need in the White House. Stop the Washington
bull and let's get things done. 


 Sure, because there has been three different investigations and proven that I knew nothing. And the fact is that what I did do, what I did do from the beginning, Chris, as soon as I found out about it, I fired the people who were responsible. And that's what you expect from a leader. 

And, I'll tell you something else. I inherited a state in New Jersey that was
downtrodden, and beaten by liberal democratic policies, high taxation, high
regulation. And, this year, in 2015, New Jersey's had the best year of job
growth that our state has ever had in the last 15 years. That's because we've
put conservative policies in place.

And, I'll tell you one other thing, you know why the Republican party will
want to take a chance on me? Because they know that Hillary Clinton will never
be prosecuted by this justice department, and they're going to want to put a
former federal prosecutor on the stage to prosecute her next September. And,
there is no one on this stage better prepared to prosecute the case against
Hillary Clinton than I am.

I will be ready. I will take her on, and when I take her on I guarantee you
one thing, she will never get within 10 miles of the White House. The days for
the Clintons in public housing are over. 


 No, what I said, Chris, was that the law needs to be followed. And that someone in that office has to do their job. So if Ms. Davis wanted to step aside and get rid of her ability to be able to do that, there should be someone else in that office who it didn't violate their conscience so they could follow the law of the state of Kentucky.

I never said that Ms. Davis should either lose her job or that she had to do
it. But what I did say was that the person who came in for the license needed
to get it. And so if there's someone in that organization, and it turns out
there was, who was willing to be able to do that, that's what we should do.

But just as importantly, and I agree with what John said. You know, we all
have our own individual interpretations of our faith. And here's the problem
with what's going on around the world. The radical Islamic jihadists, what
they want to do is impose their faith upon each and every one of us — every
one of us. And the reason why this war against them is so important is that
very basis of religious liberty.

They want everyone in this country to follow their religious beliefs the way
they do. They do not want us to exercise religious liberty. That's why as
commander in chief, I will take on ISIS, not only because it keeps us safe,
but because it allows us to absolutely conduct our religious affairs the way
we find in our heart and in our souls. As a Catholic, that's what I want to
do. And no matter what your faith is, that's what I want you to be able to do.



 Bret, let me tell you, this is another one of those places where Hillary Clinton has so much to answer for, and why she is completely unqualified to be commander in chief.

In a previous Democratic debate, Martha Raddatz, three times, asked Hillary
Clinton about the failure in Libya, a policy that she took credit for, and
said, "what is your measure of responsibility, Madam Secretary, for the
failure in Libya?" Three times, she refused to answer the question, because
she refuses to be held accountable for anything that goes wrong. If it had
gone right, believe me, she would have been running around to be able to take
credit for it.

Here's what I'd do. This is about the bigger, broader war against ISIS. We
need to bring together our European and our Sunni Arab allies, and we need to
develop a strategy together to take on ISIS every place that it is around the
world, so that together, all of us can take ISIS out, destroy it, and then
move on to come back to our country, protect our homeland security and make
sure that the American people are safe.

As president of the United States, that is exactly what I will do.


 On September 11, my wife was two blocks from the World Trade Center. When those buildings came down, she was trapped in her building and I didn't hear from her over six hours.

We have three children, eight, five and one. And I had to confront the
possibility of being a single parent. Terrorism in this country scares
everyone. And the fact is that we need a commander-in- chief who not only
understands how to protect us, but feels in here what it means to face the
possibility of loss.

I've faced it. I've prosecuted terrorists. I have made the decisions that need
to be made as a governor to protect us and as president of the United States,
no one will keep this country safer than I will.


 What about Kasich? Can I introduce Kasich?


 Sure. First, let's remember something. Every morning when a United States senator wakes up, they think about what kind of speech can I give or what kind of bill can I drop? Every morning, when I wake up, I think about what kind of problem do I need to solve for the people who actually elected me?

It's a different experience, it's a much different experience. And the fact
is, Marco, you shouldn't compare yourself to Joe Biden and you shouldn't say
that that's what we're doing. Here is exactly what we're doing.

You have not be involved in a consequential decision where you had to be held
accountable. You just simply haven't. 

And the fact is — the fact when you talk about the Hezbollah Sanctions Act
that you list as one of your accomplishments you just did, you weren't even
there to vote for it. That's not leadership, that's truancy. 

And the fact is that what we need to do — what we need to have in this country
is not to make the same mistake we made eight years ago. The fact is it does
matter when you have to make decisions and be held accountable for them. It
does matter when the challenges don't come on a list of a piece of paper of
what to vote yes or no every day, but when the problems come in from the
people that you serve.

I like Marco Rubio, and he's a smart person and a good guy, but he simply does
not have the experience to be president of the United States and make these
decisions. We've watched it happen, everybody. For the last seven years, the
people of New Hampshire are smart. Do not make the same mistake again.


 Hold on one second.


 Excuse me...


 I think he mentioned me and my record in there, so I think I get a chance to respond. You see, everybody, I want the people at home to think about this. That's what Washington, D.C. Does. The drive-by shot at the beginning with incorrect and incomplete information and then the memorized 25-second speech that is exactly what his advisers gave him. 

See Marco — Marco, the thing is this. When you're president of the United
States, when you're a governor of a state, the memorized 30-second speech
where you talk about how great America is at the end of it doesn't solve one
problem for one person. They expect you to plow the snow. They expect you to
get the schools open. And when the worst natural disaster in your state's
history hits you, they expect you to rebuild their state, which is what I've
done.

None of that stuff happens on the floor of the United States Senate. It's a
fine job, I'm glad you ran for it, but it does not prepare you for president
of the United States. 


 There it is. There it is. The memorized 25-second speech. There it is, everybody.


 You know what the shame is — you know what the shame is, Marco? The shame is that you would actually criticize somebody for showing up to work, plowing the streets, getting the trains running back on time when you've never been responsible for that in your entire life.


 And the fact is, I went back, it got done and here's...


 Oh, so — wait a second. Is that one of the skills you get as a United States senator ESP also? Because I don't think it is.


 It gets very unruly when he gets off his talking points.


 Let's get something...


 No. Let's make something very clear. I learned seven years as a federal prosecutor in dealing with types of situations like we're talking about in North Korea, where criminals take people hostage. You never pay ransom to the criminals. Ever. You never pay ransom to the criminals. Everyone out at home watching tonight understands that principle.

And so, what you need to do is to engage in a much different way with these
folks. They do not understand anything but toughness and strength, and we need
to engage the Chinese to deal with the North Koreans, but we also need to make
sure that they understand there's a commander-in-chief who will not pay ransom
for any hostage.

This president and his former secretary of State are for paying ransom for
hostages. When do that, you endanger even more Americans around the world to
be the subject of this type of hostage taking and illegal detention. You need
a strong commander-in-chief who will look these folks in the eye and say, we
will not put up with this and we will take whatever actions we need to take,
not only to get our people home safely, but to swiftly and surely punish those
who believe they can violate the law and violate American's sovereign rights
to travel the world freely and safely.

This is unacceptable. And this is why this president is so weak and why the
secretary of State, who is embracing a third Barack Obama term, would be even
weaker.


 Yeah, David, I would just like you to listen, again, everybody.

This is the difference between being a governor who actually has to be
responsible for problems and not answering a question. The question was, "Did
he fight for his legislation?" 

It's abundantly clear that he didn't. It's abundantly clear that he didn't
fight for the legislation.

When the teachers unions attacked me with $20 million of ads because I wanted
to reform teacher tenure, I fought them and fought them and fought them and I
won.

When they didn't want — when people wanted to raise taxes in my state at
Democratic legislature and threatened to close down the government, I told
them, fine. Close down the government. I'll get in my cars, head to the
governor's mansion, order a pizza, open a beer and watch the Mets. You can
call me when the government reopens.

And guess what they didn't do? They didn't pass a tax increase, because I
vetoed it and they never closed the government because they knew I would fight
for what I believed in. The fact of the matter is, a leader must fight for
what they believe in. Not handicap it and say, well maybe since I can't win
this one, I'll run. That's not what leadership is.  That's what
Congress is. 


 Good evening.


 Well, he deserves credit for his record on jobs. He's done a very good job as governor of Ohio. Never said that John hasn't. He's done a very good job. 

But — but unfortunately, John's been so busy doing over stuff, he's using old
statistics. That's OK. New Jersey had its best year of job growth in the last
15 years under five different governors this year in New Jersey. New Jersey
cut spending over $2.3 billion and we have 10,000 fewer employees than we had
when I walked in the door. John has a bigger government now and more employees
than he had when he walked in the door.

But all that doesn't matter. What really matters is this, that executive
experience really matters. You heard this on the stage tonight. We've heard it
said on the stage that President Obama knows exactly what he's doing.

I'd like to ask all the veterans listening out there tonight, who are waiting
in line for healthcare, who are literally dying because the Veterans
Administration doesn't work, do you think Barack Obama knows what he's doing?
I don't. And I'll tell you something. Anybody who evaluates him is knowing
what he's doing and managing the government doesn't know how to manage a
government themselves.

And one last thing, David, which I think is really important. I listened to
Senator Rubio's answer on his bill. He said his bill couldn't pass on the gang
of eight. He acted as if he was somehow disembodied from the bill. It was his
bill. He said this idea doesn't work. It was his idea.

See, when you're a governor, you have to take responsibility for these things.
You can't just act as if it happened out of nowhere. We have to take
responsibility as executives. I take responsibility for my record in New
Jersey. We've rebuilt the economy and rebuilt after the second-worst natural
disaster in American history. I'm proud of my record. And by the way, I like
Kasich's record, too. He's a good governor. 


 David? Hey, David? David? Hey, David? I actually have experience with raising taxes on millionaires in my state. It was done. It was done by my predecessor.

And I want everybody in the public who is in that 68 percent, I want to tell
you the truth. You're wrong. And here is why you're wrong. After New Jersey
raised taxes on millionaires, we lost, in the next four years, $70 billion in
wealth left our state.

It left our state to go where it would be treated more kindly. If the United
States raised taxes any further, that money will leave the United States, as
well. We won't have better jobs.

Let New Jersey be the canary in the coal mine. It is a failed idea and a
failed policy, it's class warfare. It happened in my state. I've stopped it
from happening again. But we cannot do it.

The 68 percent of the people are wrong about that, it will hurt the American
economy. We tried it in New Jersey. Come take a look — it did not work.



 Of course I would. As a former United States attorney who spent seven years of my life fighting this on the streets of my state, I would do that. But we need to do more. And let me tell you what we've done in New Jersey, Josh. We are working with the folks in New Hampshire in their legislature right now to show them how we're helping to solve this problem in New Jersey.

Not just for this campaign — three years ago, I proposed a law that we signed
into effect, which said that anyone who was a non- violent, non-dealing,
first-time drug offender no longer goes to prison in New Jersey. They go to
mandatory, in-patient drug treatment.

What has happened is, crime has gone down 20 percent in those years. The
prison population has gone down 10 percent. We've now closed the state prison
— closed a state prison, and we're turning it into a drug rehabilitation
facility, so people can get the tools they need.

Listen, everyone out there knows this in New Hampshire. This is a disease.
It's not a moral failing, it's a disease. And we need to get people the
treatment they need. And let me tell you why. Because I'm pro-life.

And I'm pro life not just for the nine months in the womb, I'm pro-life for
when they get out and it's a lot more complicated. 

Sixteen-year-old, heroin-addicted drug girl on the floor of the county lockup,
I'm pro-life for her life. The 42-year-old lawyer who is taking Oxycontin and
can't get out of bed and support his family — I'm pro-life for his life.
Everyone of those lives is an individual gift from God.

And the last thing is this. These efforts we've taken over the last three
years, 2015 in New Jersey, for the first time in four years, drug overdose
deaths have gone down, not up.

I'll bring the same solutions to the country. 


 You bet I would. And the fact is that because I took strong action to make sure that anyone who was showing symptoms — remember what happened with that nurse. She was showing symptoms and coming back from a place that had the ebola virus active and she had been treating patients. This was not just some — like, we picked up her just for the heck of it, alright?

We did it because she was showing symptoms, and the fact is that's the way we
should make these decision. You make these decisions based upon the symptoms,
the medicine, and the law. We quarantined her, she turned out to test negative
ultimately after 48 hours, and we released her back to the State of Maine.

But, I want to add something on the issue of mosques. Now, I'm the only one up
here who's had a law enforcement background as a U.S. Attorney after September
11th. I went to mosques throughout my state to build bridges. To build bridges
between our community in law enforcement so we can get intelligence and
information from these folks.

I've had the experience of working with them as Governor of New Jersey as
well. We cannot mix the radical Islamic jihadist with everyday Muslim-
Americans. New Jersey is the second largest Muslim- American population in
America, of any state. These are good, law abiding, hard working people. What
they need is our cooperation, and our understanding. They do not just need
broadsides against them because of the religious faith they practice.


 Martha?


 Can I — can I be really — can I be really clear on this, because I am the father of two daughters. One of them is here tonight. What my wife and I have taught our daughters right from the beginning, that their sense of self-worth, their sense of value, their sense of what they want to do with their life comes not from the outside, but comes from within. And if a young woman in this country wants to go and fight to defend their country, she should be permitted to do so.

Part of that also needs to be part of a greater effort in this country, and so
there's no reason why one — young women should be discriminated against from
registering for the selective service. The fact is, we need to be a party and
a people that makes sure that our women in this country understand anything
they can dream, anything that they want to aspire to, they can do. That's the
way we raised our daughters and that's what we should aspire to as president
for all of the women in our country. 


 Well, I've been pretty helpful to the pro-life cause in one of the most pro-choice states in the union. I've stood up for the first time and now for the last six years we've de-funded Planned Parenthood, not talked about it like they do in Washington D.C.

But for six years as governor, Planned Parenthood does not receive that
funding from the state budget anymore; over $50 million worth of money that's
been saved now, that is not going to do exactly what Hillary Clinton wants to
have done and has advocated for.

She believes that organization, which engages in the systematic murder of
children in the womb, in order to maximize the value of their body parts for
sale on the open market, is an acceptable position.

Let me tell you something, I don't care if you are a millennial or whether you
are in your 90s, no one is for that type of activity, unless you are the most
radical type of extremist on this issue, like Senator Clinton and her party is
on this issue.

I'll say one other thing. The fact is, that I believe that if a woman has been
raped, that is a birth and a pregnancy that she should be able to terminate.
If she is the victim of incest — this is not a woman's choice. This is a woman
being violated.

And the fact is that we have always has believed, as has Ronald Reagan, that
we have self-defense for women who have been raped and impregnated because of
it, or the subject of incest and been impregnated for it.

That woman should not have to deliver that child if they believe that
violation is now an act of self-defense by terminating that pregnancy.


 Denver.


 Thank you. I've spent the last 13 years of my life focused on one thing: serving the people who have given me the opportunity to serve them. Not about politics, not about partisanship, but putting the people of my state and our country first.

I'm proud to have rebuild my state after Hurricane Sandy, and I'm incredibly
proud to be on this stage tonight with these men asking for your vote.

New Hampshire, I spent 70 days here with you. You've gotten to know my heart.
My heart is to help you solve the problems of your state...[_bell
rings_]...and the problems of our nation. If you give me your vote on Tuesday
I will do just that. 


