 Thank you, Anderson. 

Thank you, CNN, and thank you Facebook for organizing this debate.

Not only will Americans be electing a new president next year, we also will be
electing a world leader. Voters should assess the candidate's experience,
character and vision for the future as they make this important decision.

I'm the only one running for president that has been a mayor, a United States
senator, and a governor. As mayor, I brought labor peace to my city and kept
taxes down. I was reelected three times. As a senator, I earned a reputation
for courageous votes against the Bush-Cheney tax cuts the favored the wealthy,
against the tragedy of the Iraq war, for environmental stewardship, for
protection of our civil liberties. I served on the Foreign Relations Committee
and I chaired the Middle East Subcommittee for four years.

As governor, I came in at the depths of the recession and we turned my state
around. Rhode Island had the biggest drop of the unemployment rate over my
four budgets of all but one state. It happens to be Nevada, where we're having
this debate. I'm very proud that over my almost 30 years of public service, I
have had no scandals. I've always been honest. I have the courage to take the
long-term view, and I've shown good judgment. I have high ethical standards.

As we look to the future, I want to address the income inequality, close the
gap between the haves and the have-nots. I want to address climate change, a
real threat to our planet. And I believe in prosperity through peace. I want
to end these wars.

I look forward to the discussion ahead.

Thank you 


 Anderson, you're looking at a block of granite when it comes to the issues. Whether it's... 




 Did you hear what I said? On the issues. I have not changed on the issues. I was a liberal Republican, then I was an independent, and now I'm a proud Democrat. But I have not changed on the issues. 

And I open my record to scrutiny. Whether it's on the environment, a woman's
right to choose, gay marriage, fiscal responsibility, aversion to foreign
entanglements, using the tools of government to help the less fortunate.

Time and time again, I have never changed. You're looking at a block of
granite when it comes to the issues. So I have not changed.


 The party left me. There's no doubt about that. There was no room for a liberal moderate Republican in that party. I even had a primary for my reelection in 2006. I won it. But the money poured in to defeat me in Rhode Island as a Republican. That's what we were up against. 


 Yes, I have a good record of voting for gun commonsense safety legislation, but the reality is, despite these tragedies that happen time and time again, when legislators step up to pass commonsense gun safety legislation, the gun lobby moves in and tells the people they're coming to take away your guns. 

And, they're successful at it, in Colorado and others states, the legislators
that vote for commonsense gun safety measures then get defeated. I even saw in
Rhode Island. So, I would bring the gun lobby in and say we've got to change
this. Where can we find common ground? Wayne Lapierre from the NRA, whoever it
is, the leaders. Come one, we've go to change this. We're not coming to take
away your guns, we believe in the Second Amendment, but let's find common
ground here.


 Well, we just heard Senator Sanders say that it's the worst decision in American history. That's very significant, the worst decision in American history, I just heard from Senator Sanders. 

So, as we look ahead, if you're going to make those poor judgment calls, a
critical time in our history, we just finished with the Vietnam era, getting
back into another quagmire — if you're looking ahead, and you're looking at
someone who made that poor decision in 2002 to go into Iraq when there was no
real evidence of weapons of mass destruction in Iraq — I know because I did my
homework, and, so, that's an indication of how someone will perform in the
future. And that's what's important. 


 OK. I just have to answer one thing that Senator Webb said about the Iran deal, because I'm a strong proponent of what President Obama — and he said that because of that the Iran deal that enabled Russia to come in. 

No, that's not true, Senator Webb. I respect your foreign policy chops. But
Russia is aligned with Iran and with Assad and the Alawite Shias in Syria. So
that Iran deal did not allow Russia to come in.


 It's certainly the chaos in the Middle East. There's no doubt about it. 


 And it all started with the Iraq invasion. 


 Absolutely. We have to repair American credibility after we told the world that Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass destruction, which he didn't. So there's an issue of American credibility out there. So any time someone is running to be our leader, and a world leader, which the American president is, credibility is an issue out there with the world. And we have repair work to be done. I think we need someone that has the best in ethical standards as our next president. That's how I feel. 


 The Glass-Steagall was my very first vote, I'd just arrived, my dad had died in office, I was appointed to the office, it was my very first vote. 


 I'd just arrived at the Senate. I think we'd get some takeovers, and that was one. It was my very first vote, and it was 92-5. It was the... 


 But let me just say... 


 I think you're being a little rough. I'd just arrived at the United States Senate. I'd been mayor of my city. My dad had died. I'd been appointed by the governor. It was the first vote and it was 90-5, because it was a conference report. 

But let me just say about income inequality. We've had a lot of talk over the
last few minutes, hours, or tens of minutes, but no one is saying how we're
going to fix it. And it all started with the Bush tax cuts that favored the
wealthy.

So let's go back to the tax code. And 0.6 percent of Americans are at the top
echelon, over 464,000, 0.6 Americans. That's less than 1 percent. But they
generate 30 percent of the revenue. And they're doing fine.


 So there's still a lot more money to be had from this top echelon. I'm saying let's have another tier and put that back into the tax bracket. And that will generate $42 billion. 


 And then we can help the middle class and hard-earning Americans — hard-working Americans. 


 No, that was another 99 to one vote for the Patriot Act, and it was seen as at the time modernizing our ability to do what we've always done to tap phones which always required a warrant. And I voted for that. 


 No, no. As long as you're getting a warrant, I believe that under the Fourth Amendment, you should be able to do surveillance, but you need a warrant. That's what the Fourth Amendment says. And in the Patriot Act, section 215 started to get broadened too far. So I would be in favor of addressing and reforming section 215 of the Patriot Act. 


 No, I would bring him home. The courts have ruled that what he did — what he did was say the American... 




 ... the American government was acting illegally. That's what the federal courts have said; what Snowden did showed that the American government was acting illegally for the Fourth Amendment. So I would bring him home. 


 Certainly, ending the wars. We've got to stop these wars. You have to have a new dynamic, a new paradigm. We just spent a half-billion dollars arming and training soldiers, the rebel soldiers in Syria. They quickly join the other side. We bombed the... 




 I'd like to finish my question — my answer. 

And also we just bombed a hospital. We've had drone strikes that hit civilian
weddings. So I would change how we — our approach to the Middle East. We need
a new paradigm in the Middle East.


 I guess the coal lobby. I've worked hard for climate change and I want to work with the coal lobby. But in my time in the Senate, tried to bring them to the table so that we could address carbon dioxide. I'm proud to be at odds with the coal lobby. 


 Thank you, Anderson. Thank you, CNN. And thank you, Facebook, for sponsoring this debate. 

America has many challenges confronting us — ending the perpetual wars,
addressing climate change, addressing income inequality, funding education,
funding infrastructure, funding healthcare, helping black Americans, helping
Native Americans. We have many challenges. Who is best able to confront these
challenges?

I've served in government at many levels. I know what it's like to solve
problems at the local level because I did it as mayor. I know how to get
legislation passed through Congress because I did it as a senator. I know how
to turn around a state because I did as governor of Rhode Island.

But what I'm most proud of is that in 30 years of public service, I have had
no scandals. I have high ethical standards. And what I'm most proud of is my
judgment, particularly in the Iraq war vote. There was a lot of pressure —
political pressure, public pressure. But I did my homework and I did not
believe that the evidence was there that Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass
destruction. And we live now with the consequences.

So that kind of judgment is what we want in a president going forward. And I'm
running for president to end the wars. I want to be the peacemaker. I am a
proven peacemaker. Please go to Chafee 2016 to learn more about me. Thank you.



