 Chris, I disagree with the idea that the real issue is a constitutional amendment. That's a long and difficult process. I've actually taken the position that's bolder than that. 

A lot of people are talking about defunding planned parenthood, as if that's a
huge game changer. I think it's time to do something even more bold. I think
the next president ought to invoke the Fifth, and Fourteenth Amendments to the
constitution now that we clearly know that that baby inside the mother's womb
is a person at the moment of conception.

The reason we know that it is is because of the DNA schedule that we now have
clear scientific evidence on. And, this notion that we just continue to ignore
the personhood of the individual is a violation of that unborn child's Fifth
and 14th Amendment rights for due process and equal protection under the law.

It's time that we recognize the Supreme Court is not the Supreme Being, and we
change the policy to be pro-life and protect children instead of rip up their
body parts and sell them like they're parts to a Buick. 


 Not me.  But you're welcome to give me a check, Donald if you'd like. 


 Well, let's all be reminded, 60 million Americans are on Social Security, 60 million. A third of those people depend on 90% of their income from Social Security. Nobody in this country is on Social Security because they made the decision when they were starting work at 14 that they wanted to trust some of their money with the government. 

The government took it out of their check whether they wanted them to or not.
And, if person goes to 65, they're going to spend 51 years with the government
reaching into their pocket at every paycheck.

Now, here's the point, whose fault is it that the system is screwed up? Is it
the recipients, or is it the government? And, if Congress wants to mess with
the retirement program, why don't we let them start by changing their
retirement program, and not have one, instead of talking about getting rid of
Social Security and Medicare that was robbed $700 billion dollars to pay for
Obamacare.

It's always that the government figures that they can do this off the backs of
people, many of whom are poor, and depend on that money, and I just think it's
fundamentally lying to the people and stealing from them, and we shouldn't be
doing it. 


 Well, you ask about how we fund it. One of the reasons that Social Security is in so much trouble is that the only funding stream comes from people who get a wage. The people who get wages is declining dramatically. Most of the income in this country is made by people at the top who get dividends and -- and capital gains. 

The FairTax transforms the process by which we fund Social Security and
Medicare because the money paid in consumption is paid by everybody, including
illegals, prostitutes, pimps, drug dealers, all the people 
that are freeloading off the system now. 

That's why it ought to be a transformed system. 


 Ronald Reagan said "trust, but verify." President Obama is "trust, but vilify." He trusts our enemies and vilifies everyone who disagrees with him. 

And the reason we disagree with him has nothing to do with party. 




 It has to do with the incredibly dangerous place that this world is gonna be as a result of a deal in which we got nothing. 

We didn't even get four hostages out. We got nothing, and Iran gets everything
they want.

We said we would have anywhere, anytime negotiations and inspections, we gave
that up. We said that we would make sure that they didn't have any nuclear
capacity, we gave that up.

The president can't tell us what we got. I'll tell you what the world got. The
world has a burgeoning nuclear power that didn't, as the Soviets, say "we
might defend ourselves in a war."

What the Iranians have said is, "we will wipe Israel off the face of the map,
and we will bring death to America." When someone points a gun at your head
 and loads it, by God, you ought to take them seriously, and
we need to take that seriously.


 The military is not a social experiment. The purpose of the military is kill people and break things.  

It's not to transform the culture by trying out some ideas that some people
think would make us a different country and more diverse. The purpose is to
protect America. I'm not sure how paying for transgender surgery for soldiers,
sailors, airmen, marines makes our country safer.

We've reduced the military by 25 percent...  ... under President
Obama. The disaster is that we've forgotten why we have a military. The
purpose of it is to make sure that we protect every American, wherever that
American is, and if an American is calling out for help, whether it's in
Benghazi or at the border, then we ought to be able to answer it.

We've not done that because we've decimated our military. We're flying B-52s.
The most recent one that was put in service was November of 1962. A lot of the
B-52s we're flying, we've only got 44 that are in service combat ready, and
the fact is, most of them are older than me. And that's pretty scary.




 It seems like this election has been a whole lot about a person who's very high in the polls, that doesn't have a clue about how to govern. 

A person who has been filled with scandals, and who could not lead, and, of
course, I'm talking about Hillary Clinton. 

I think America...


 ...is in trouble, but it's not beyond repair. But it's going to take leadership who sees the greatness of this country, and who believes that once again we can be one nation, under God. 

I'll be my best to do that, and thank you for your support. 


 I'm Mike Huckabee. I'm delighted to be on this stage with some remarkable fellow Republicans. 

None of us are a self-professed socialist. None of us on this state are under
investigation by the FBI because we destroyed government records, or because
we leaked secrets.

I know that there are some in the Wall-Street-to-Washington axis of power who
speak of all of us contemptuously. But I'm here to say that I think we are, in
fact, the A team.

We have some remarkable people, and, in fact, not only are we the A team; we
even have our own Mr. T, who doesn't mind saying about others, "you're a
fool."

And I'm delighted to be here with all of these guys, and would put any of them
in an administration that I led. Thank you very much. 


 I would certainly love to get in on this, because I think the single... 




 I've been patiently waiting, and I'm going to just say this about Iran. 


 Because I think it is incredibly important. This is really about the survival of Western civilization. This is not just a little conflict with a Middle Eastern country that we've just now given over $100 billion to, the equivalent in U.S. terms is $5 trillion. 

This threatens Israel immediately, this threatens the entire Middle East, but
it threatens the United States of America. And we can't treat a nuclear
Iranian government as if it is just some government that would like to have
power. This is a government for 36 years has killed Americans, they kidnapped
Americans, they have maimed Americans. They have sponsored terrorist groups,
Hamas and Hezbollah, and they threaten the very essence of Western
civilization.

To give them this agreement, that the president treats like the Magna Carta,
but Iranians treat it like it's toilet paper, and we must, simply, make it
very clear that the next president, one of us on this stage, will absolutely
not honor that agreement, and will destroy it and will be tough with Iran,
because otherwise, we put every person in this world in a very dangerous
place. 


 No, I don't think he's on the wrong side of such an issue. Jeb is a friend. I'm not up here to fight with Jeb or to fight with anybody else. 

But I am here to fight for somebody who is a county clerk elected under the
Kentucky constitution that 75 percent of the people of that state had voted
for that said that marriage was between a man and a woman.

The Supreme Court in a very, very divided decision decided out of thin air
that they were just going to redefine marriage. It's a decision that the other
justices in dissent said they didn't have and there wasn't a constitutional
shred of capacity for them to do it.

I thought that everybody here passed ninth-grade civics. The courts cannot
legislate. That's what Roberts said. But heck, it's what we learned in civics.

The courts can't make a law. They can interpret one. They can review one. They
can't implement it. They can't force it.

But here's what happened: Because the courts just decided that something was
going to be and people relinquished it and the other two branches of
government sat by silently — I thought we had three branches of government,
they were all equal to each other, we have separation of powers, and we have
checks and balances.

If the court can just make a decision and we just all surrender to it, we have
what Jefferson said was judicial tyranny.

The reason that this is a real issue that we need to think about...


 No, no. Let me finish this one thought, Jake. I haven't gotten that much time, so I'm going to take just what little I can here. 

We made accommodation to the Fort Hood shooter to let him grow a beard. We
made accommodations to the detainees at Gitmo — I've been to Gitmo, and I've
seen the accommodations that we made to the Muslim detainees who killed
Americans.

You're telling me that you cannot make an accommodation for an elected
Democrat county clerk from Rowan County, Kentucky? What else is it other than
the criminalization of her faith and the exaltation of the faith of everyone
else who might be a Fort Hood shooter or a detainee at Gitmo? 


 I have a different idea. I think we ought to get rid of all the taxes on people who produce. Why should we penalize productivity? And it's why I'm an unabashed supporter of the "fair tax," which would be a tax on our consumption, rather than a tax on our productivity. 

In other words, you're not going to tax anybody for what they earn, whether
it's worker whose working by the hour or whether it's a hedge fund manager. If
they can produce something and bring capital and labor to create jobs, we need
some jobs. And I think the "fair tax" makes more sense.

Now, Jake, I've been listening to everybody on the stage and there is a lot of
back and forth about I'm the only one who has done this, the only one who has
done that, I've done great things.

We've all done great things or we wouldn't be on this stage. But it occurs to
me as we're sitting here in the Reagan Library that most of us would like to
pay tribute to a guy who, when he got elected, didn't get elected telling
everybody how great he was.

He got elected telling everybody how great the American people were. And he
empowered them to live their dreams, which is what I'd love to see us do by no
longer penalizing the people who are out there working because they are taking
a gut punch right now. 


 ...You don't want me operating on you, I assure you.  


 Just today — just today, there was a new report that 50 different intelligence analysts have said that what they sent up the ladder was doctored by senior officials, so that they could give some happy talk to the situation that we face. 

I love the idea of a good intellectual capacity to deal with our enemies, but
the fact is, if you don't have good intelligence that is reliable and honest,
you won't have good intelligence and you cannot make good decisions.

The next president is primarily elected not just to know things, but to know
what to do with the things that he knows. And the most dangerous person in any
room is the person who doesn't know what he doesn't know.


 And the reason Barack Obama has been dangerous to this country and we better elect someone who had some executive experience, is because we cannot afford another eight years having a person in the office who doesn't know what he does not know. 


 You better believe I will, because I'm tired of liberals always having a litmus test and conservatives are supposed to pretend we don't. Well let me tell you what mine would be. 

Number one, I'd ask do you think that the unborn child is a human being or is
it just a blob of tissue? I'd want to know the answer to that. I'd want to
know do you believe in the First Amendment, do you believe that religious
liberty is the fundamental liberty around which all the other freedoms of this
country are based? And I'd want to know do you really believe in the Second
Amendment, do you believe that we have an individual right to bear arms to
protect ourselves and our family and to protect our country? And do you
believe in the Fifth and the 14th Amendment? Do you believe that a person,
before they're deprived of life and liberty, should in fact have due process
and equal protection under the law? Because if you do, you're going to do more
than defund Planned Parenthood.


 One final thing. I'd make darn sure that we absolutely believe the 10th Amendment. Every governor on this stage would share this much with you. Every one of us — our biggest fight wasn't always with the legislature or even with the Democrats. My gosh, half the time, it was with the federal government who apparently never understood — 


 — that if it's not reserved in the Constitution, then the 10th Amendment says it's left to the states. But somebody forgot to send a memo to Washington. 


 Jake? Jake? 


 I think we need to remember that there are maybe some controversies about autism, but there is no controversy about the things that are really driving the medical costs in this country. 

And I would really believe that the next president ought to declare a war on
cancer, heart disease, diabetes, and Alzheimer's, because those are the four
things that are causing the greatest level of cost.

John Kennedy said, "we'll go to the moon in a decade and bring a man back,"
and we did it. I grew up in the '50s. I remember the polio vaccine. We saved
billions of dollars since that time, because we haven't had to treat for
polio.

Why doesn't this country focus on cures rather than treatment? Why don't we
put a definitive focus scientifically on finding the cure for cancer, for
heart disease, for diabetes and for Alzheimer's, a disease alone that will
cost us —


 $1.1 trillion by the year 2050. We change the economy and the country. 


 That's an easy one. I'd put my wife on there.  

I've been married to her 41 years. She's fought cancer and lived through it.
She's raised three kids, five great grandkids, and she's put up with me. I
mean, who else could possibly be on that money other than my wife. And that
way, she could spend her own money with her face. 


 I'd go with Duck Hunter. 


 At the end of my presidency I would like to believe that the world would be a safe place, and there wouldn't be the threats. not only to the U.S., but to Israel and our allies, because we would have the most incredible well-trained, well-equipped, well- prepared military in the history of mankind. And they would know that the commander-in-chief would never send them to a mission without all the resources necessary, but people wouldn't bully us anymore. Because they would know that that would be an invitation to their destruction. 

Domestically, we would be operating under a tax system that eliminated the
IRS. People wouldn't be punished for their work, and for what they produced.

And life would be really deemed precious. Abortion would be no more. It would
be as much of a scourge in our past as slavery is. And we would have a
peaceful country, where people respected each other and people respected law
enforcement. And we would focus on cures.

And we would make this country not only safe from our enemies without, but
safe from the enemies within. And it would be a good place to raise our kids
and our grandkids. 


 Well, John, I don't really have any weaknesses that I can think of. 

But my wife is down here in the front, and I'm sure, if you'd like to talk to
her later, she can give you more than you'll ever be able to take care of.

If I have a weakness, it's that I try to live by the rules. I try to live by
the rules, no matter what they are, and I was brought up that way as a kid.
Play by the rules.

And I'll tell you what a weakness is of this country: there are a lot of
people who are sick and tired because Washington does not play by the same
rules that the American people have to play by.


 Well, I would really appreciate that. First of all, yes, we've stolen. Yes, we've lied to the American people about Social Security, and Medicare.

But, you know what we're not telling them? It's their money. This isn't the
governments money. This is not entitlement, it's not welfare. This is money
that people have confiscated out of their paychecks. Everytime they got a
paycheck, the government reached in and took something out of it before they
ever saw it. Now, we're going to blame the people.

Today congress decided to take another $150 billion dollars away from Social
Security so they can borrow more money. That makes no sense to everybody. And,
they're always going to say, "Well, we're going to fix this one day."

No their not. It's like a 400 pound man saying, "I'm going to go on a diet,
but I'm eating a sack of Krispy Kremes before I do."

And, people are sick of believing that the government is never going to really
address this. But, let me tell you who not to blame. Let's quit blaming the
people on Social Security. Let's quit making it a problem for them. It's like
them getting mugged, and then us saying, well, we're going to mug you some
more. You ought to just be able to get over it, get used to it...


 ...No, sir...


 ...we need to honor our promises...




 ...before I go. This is the only time I've had a chance, let me finish.


 ...This is a matter not of math, this is a matter of morality. If this country that does not keep its promise to seniors then what promise can this country hope to be trusted to keep? And, the fact is, none of them.



: And, by the way, Carl... 


 And, the only way — no...




 ...Chris...


 ...Chris...


 Since he brought me up, do I not get to respond?


 John, listen, let's keep in mind that for one-third of the 60 million Americans on Social Security it represents 90 percent of their income. And, when I hear people talking about means testing, let's just remember what that means. If we means test Social Security, it means that the government decides whether or not I deserve it. If a person lives in a seven room house, does the government get to say you don't need seven rooms, we're going to take two of them away?

Folks, the government has no business stealing even more from the people who
have paid this in. I just want to remind you, people paid their money. They
expect to have it. And, if this government doesn't pay it, than tell me what's
different between the government and Bernie Madolf, who sits in prison today
for doing less than what the government has done to the people on social
security and Medicare in this country. 


 I don't think it's so much about when the government orders a corporation to do something. In fact, that's part of the problem. If you saw that blimp that got cut loose from Maryland today, it's a perfect example of government.

I mean, what we had was something the government made — basically a bag of gas
— that cut loose, destroyed everything in its path, left thousands of people
powerless, but they couldn't get rid of it because we had too much money
invested in it, so we had to keep it.

That is our government today. We saw it in the blimp. 

That's exactly what we saw. So look, corporations ought to exercise some
responsibility. When CEO income has risen 90 percent above the average worker,
when the bottom 90 percent of this country's economy has had stagnant wages
for the past 40 years, somebody is taking it in the teeth.

And it's not the folks on Wall Street. I'm not anti-Wall Street, but I don't
believe the government ought to wear a team jersey, pick winners and losers.


 The government ought to wear a striped shirt and just make sure the game...


 ...is paid — played fairly.


 Now, everybody else has fudged their time and gone over, so please, don't cut me off too quick, Becky.


 We need to be focusing on what fixes this country. And I'll tell you one thing that we never talk about — we haven't talked about it tonight.

Why aren't we talking about — instead of cutting benefits for old people,
cutting benefits for sick people — why don't we say, "let's cure the four big
cost-driving diseases...


 ..."diabetes, heart disease, cancer and Alzheimer's?"


 If you do that, you don't just change the economy, you transform the lives of millions of hurting Americans.


 Gosh, I'd love for us to talk about something like that. Thank you. 


 You know, of the few questions I've got, the last one I need is to give him some more time. I love Donald Trump. He is a good man. I'm wearing a Trump tie tonight. Get over that one, OK? 



: Is it made in Mexico?


 I don't know.

: Where's it made? Is it made in China?

: Is it made in China or Mexico?


 I have no idea.




 You're welcome. 

Let me tell you, Donald Trump would be a president every day of the week and
twice on Sunday, rather than Hillary. I've spent a lifetime in politics
fighting the Clinton machine. 

You want to talk about what we're going to be up against next year? I'm the
only guy on this stage — you know, everybody has an "only guy" — "I'm the only
guy this; I'm the only guy that." Well, let me tell you one thing that I am
the only guy: The only guy that has consistently fought the Clinton machine
every election I was ever in over the past 26 years. And not only did I fight
them, but I beat them.

Somebody says "I'm a fighter." Well, I want to know, did you win? Well, I did.
And not only did I fight them and win, I lived to tell about it and I'm
standing on this stage tonight as evidence of that. And I think that ought to
be worth something.


 Well, and specifically to Medicare, Becky, because 85 percent of the cost of Medicare is chronic disease. The fact is if we don't address what's costing so much, we can't throw enough money at this. And it's why I've continued to focus on the fact that we need to declare war on the four big cost drivers because 80 percent of all medical costs in this country are chronic disease. We don't have a health care crisis in America, we have a health crisis.

And until we deal with the health of Americans and do what we did with polio —
when I was a little kid, we eradicated it. You know how much money we spent on
polio last year in America? We didn't spend any. We've saved billions of
dollars.

You want to fix Medicare? Focus on the diseases that are costing us the
trillions of dollars. Alzheimers, diabetes, heart disease and cancer.
Eradicate those and you fix Medicare and you've fixed America, its economy and
you've made people's lives a heck of a lot better.


 You know, I know to a lot of people in the media, this is just a great big game, and we're the players. And, we come out here, and we do our thing. And, sometimes we're held up in contempt by people who write columns, but, I guarantee you to every person on this stage there's something deep inside of us that would cause us to give up our livelihoods and step out on this stage and fight for the people of America.

I've got five grandkids. I do not want to walk my five grandkids through the
charred remains of a once great country called America, and say, "Here you go,
$20 trillion dollars of debt. Good luck making something out of this mess."

And, for those of us who are serious enough to run for president, think long
and hard why we're here, and hopefully you'll know we're not here for
ourselves. We honest to god are here to get this country back on track. I know
this, I certainly am.


 ...Thank you.


