Absolutely, I do, and I'm gonna run hard, run with heart, and run to win. 

I'm gonna have to earn this. Maybe the barrier -- the bar's even higher for
me. That's fine.

I've got a record in Florida. I'm proud of my dad, and I'm certainly proud of
my brother. In Florida, they called me Jeb, because I earned it.

I cut taxes every year, totaling $19 billion. We were -- we had -- we balanced
every budget. We went from $1 billion of reserves to $9 billion of reserves.

We were one of two states that went to AAA bond rating.

They keep -- they called me Veto Corleone. Because I vetoed 2,500 separate
line-items in the budget. 

I am my own man. I governed as a conservative, and I govern effectively. And
the net effect was, during my eight years, 1.3 million jobs were created. We
left the state better off because I applied conservative principles in a
purple state the right way, and people rose up. 


 I do. I believe that the great majority of people coming here illegally have no other option. They want to provide for their family. 

But we need to control our border. It's not -- it's our responsibility to pick
and choose who comes in. So I -- I've written a book about this and yet this
week, I did come up with a comprehensive strategy that -- that really mirrored
what we said in the book, which is that we need to deal with E-Verify, we need
to deal with people that come with a legal visa and overstay.

We need to be much more strategic on how we deal with border enforcement,
border security. We need to eliminate the sanctuary cities in this country. It
is ridiculous and tragic......that people are dying because of the
fact that -- that local governments are not following the federal law. There's
much to do. And I think rather than talking about this as a wedge issue, which
Barack Obama has done now for six long years, the next president -- and I hope
to be that president -- will fix this once and for all so that we can turn
this into a driver for high sustained economic growth.

And there should be a path to earned legal status...

 ...I remember... 


 ...I remember, Megyn.  


 Knowing what we know now, with faulty intelligence, and not having security be the first priority when -- when we invaded, it was a mistake. I wouldn't have gone in, however, for the people that did lose their lives, and the families that suffer because of it -- I know this full well because as governor of the state of Florida, I called every one of them. Every one of them that I could find to tell them that I was praying for them, that I cared about them, and it was really hard to do. 

And, every one of them said that their child did not die in vain, or their
wife, of their husband did not die in vain.

So, why it was difficult for me to do it was based on that. Here's the lesson
that we should take from this, which relates to this whole subject. Barack
Obama became president, and he abandoned Iraq. He left, and when he left Al
Qaida was done for. ISIS was created because  of the void that
we left, and that void now exists as a caliphate the size of Indiana.

To honor the people that died, we need to -- we need to --- stop the -- Iran
agreement, for sure, because the Iranian mullahs have their blood on their
hands, and we need to take out ISIS with every tool at our disposal.



 No, I don't. And I don't believe the federal government should be involved in the creation of standards directly or indirectly, the creation of curriculum or content. It is clearly a state responsibility. 

I'm for higher standards...  ...measured in an intellectually
honest way, with abundant school choice, ending social promotion. And I know
how to do this because as governor of the state of Florida I created the first
statewide voucher program in the country, the second statewide voucher
program, in the country and the third statewide voucher program in the
country.

And we had rising student achievement across the board, because high
standards, robust accountability, ending social promotion in third grade, real
school choice across the board, challenging the teachers union and beating
them is the way to go.

And Florida's low income kids had the greatest gains inside the country. Our
graduation rate improved by 50 percent. That's what I'm for.


 He is definitely my friend. And I think the states ought to create these standards. And if states want to opt out of Common Core, fine. Just make sure your standards are high. 

Because today in America, a third of our kids, after we spend more per student
than any country in the world other than a couple rounding errors, to be
honest with you, 30 percent are college- and/or career-ready.

If we are going to compete in this world we're in today, there is no possible
way we can do it with lowering expectations and dumbing down everything.
Children are going to suffer and families' hearts are going to be broken that
their kids won't be able to get a job in the 21st Century. 


 We've done it 27 times since World War II. I think we need to lift our spirits and have high, lofty expectations for this great country of ours. 

The new normal of two percent that the left is saying you can't do anything
about is so dangerous for our country. There's 6 million people living in
poverty today, more than when Barack Obama got elected. 6.5 million people are
working part-time, most of whom want to work full-time. We've created rules
and taxes on top of every aspiration of people, and the net result is we're
not growing fast, income's not growing. A four percent growth strategy means
you fix a convoluted tax code. You get in and you change every aspect of
regulations that are job killers. You get rid of Obamacare and replace it with
something that doesn't suppress wages and kill jobs. 

You embrace the energy revolution in our country. This president and Hillary
Clinton, who can't even say she's for the XL pipeline even after she's left?
Give me a break. Of course we're for it. We should be for these things to
create high sustained economic growth. And frankly,  fixing
our immigration system and turning it into an economic driver is part of this
as well. We can do this. 


 None of which is true. 


 No. It's not true. But I have said that Mr. Trump's language is divisive. 

I want to win. I want one of these people here or the ones at 5:00, to be the
next president of the United States.

We're not going on win by doing what Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton do each
and every day. Dividing the country. Saying, creating a grievance kind of
environment. We're going to win when we unite people with a hopeful,
optimistic message. I have that message because I was a governor of a state
that saw people lifted up, because we had high sustained economic growth. Our
economy grew at double the rate of the nation. We created 1.3 million jobs. We
led the nation seven out of those eight years. We were only one of two states
that went to AAA bond rating. I cut taxes, $19 billion. If you do that and
apply conservative principles the right way, you create an environment where
everybody rises up. That's how we're going to win. Campaigning in places to
give people hope that their life is better because too many people are
suffering today in America.


 Here's what I believe. I believe we're at the verge of the greatest time to be alive in this world. 

But Washington is holding us back. How we tax, how we regulate. We're not
embracing the energy revolution in our midst, a broken immigration system that
has been politicized rather than turning it into an economic driver.

We're not protecting and preserving our entitlement system or reforming for
the next generation. All these things languish while we have politicians in
Washington using these as wedge issues.

Here's my commitment to you, because I did it as Florida. We can fix these
things. We can grow economically and restore America's leadership in the
world, so that everybody has a chance to rise up. I humbly ask for your vote,
whenever you're gonna get to vote, whenever the primary is. Thank you all very
much.


 I'm Jeb Bush, and I believe America's on the verge of its greatest century, and I'm ready to lead. I'm a committed, conservative reformer that cut taxes, that balanced budgets, that took on the special interest in Florida, and we won. 

I look forward to talking tonight about how we can fix a broken Washington
D.C., and create an environment where people can rise up again in this great
country.

Thank you. 


 I think the voters will make that determination. 

But what I know to be true is that the next president of the United States is
going to have to fix an extraordinary difficult situation. This
administration, with President Obama and Hillary Clinton, has created
insecurity the likes of which we never would've imagined. There's not a place
in the world where we're better off today than six and a half years ago.

And that requires a steadiness. That requires an understanding of how the
world works. That requires an understanding and appreciation of American
leadership in the world.

You can't just, you know, talk about this stuff and insult leaders around the
world and expect a good result. You have to do this with a steady hand, and I
believe I have those skills.


 No. Absolutely not. People are supporting me because I have a proven record of conservative leadership where I cut taxes $19 billion over eight years. We shrunk the state government workforce, we created a climate that led the nation in job growth seven out of eight years. We were one of two states to go to AAA bond rating. People know that we need principle-centered leadership, a disrupter to go to Washington, D.C. The one guy that had some special interests that I know of that tried to get me to change my views on something — that was generous and gave me money — was Donald Trump. He wanted casino gambling in Florida — 


 Yes you did. 


 You wanted it and you didn't get it because I was opposed to — 


 — casino gambling before — 


 during and after. And that's not — I'm not going to be bought by anybody. 


 No way. Believe me. 


 Not even possible. 


 You've got, according to your — to what you said on one of the talk shows, you got Hillary Clinton to go to your wedding — 


 — because you gave her money. Maybe it works for Hillary Clinton — 


 — it doesn't work for anybody on this — on stage. 


 But the simple fact is — 


 No. The simple fact is, Donald, you could not take — 


 I was asked the question. 


 So he supports Pelosi, he supports Schumer, he supports Clinton — 


 When he — and he — when he asked — when he asked Florida to have casino gambling, we said no. 


 We said no. And that's the simple fact. The simple fact is — 


 Don't cut me off. 


 No, I don't think so, but we need to be strong against China. We should use offensive tactics as it relates to cyber security, send a deterrent signal to China. There should be super sanctions in what President Obama has proposed. There's many other tools that we have without canceling a dinner. That's not going to change anything, but we can be much stronger as it relates to that. 

As it relates to Iran, it's not a strategy to tear up an agreement. A strategy
would be how do we confront Iran? And, the first thing that we need to do is
to establish our commitment to Israel which has been altered by this
administration. And, make sure that they have the most sophisticated weapons
to send a signal to Iran that we have Israel's back.

If we do that, it's going to create a healthier deterrent effect than anything
else I can think of.


 I don't think — you're not stating my views right. 


 I think there needs to be accommodation for someone acting on faith. Religious conscience is — is — is a first freedom. It's — it's a powerful part of our — of our Bill of Rights. 

And, in a big, tolerant country, we should respect the rule of law, allow
people in — in — in this country — I'm a — I was opposed to the decision, but
we — you can't just say, "well, they — gays can't get married now."

But this woman, there should be some accommodation for her conscience, just as
there should be for people that are florists that don't want to participate in
weddings, or bakers. A great country like us should find a way to have
accommodations for people so that we can solve the problem in the right way.
This should be solved at the local level...


 And so we do agree, Mike. 


 Well, he's wrong on a lot of things, but on this he's wrong because I'm the most pro-life governor on this stage. I got to act on my core beliefs. It's part of who I am. Life is a gift from God. And from beginning end we need to respect it and err on the side of life. 

And so I defunded Planned Parenthood. We created a climate where parental
notification took place. We were the only state to fund crisis pregnancy
centers with state moneys. We were totally focused on this. And I would bring
that kind of philosophy to Washington, D.C.

So here is a solution to this. Title X of the HHS funding, there is something
that was the "Reagan Rule." It was passed in 1988. And in that rule it was
defined, and the courts approved this, that a Planned Parenthood, you couldn't
separate the money between the actual abortion procedures, and there are
330,000 abortions that take place in this clinic, and their promotion of it.

He interpreted it the right way, the courts ruled in his favor, and Planned
Parenthood did not get funding during that time until President Clinton came
in.

When I'm elected president, we will restore that interpretation of Title X.
And this deal will be finished. 


 There are 13,000 community-based organizations that provide health services to women, 13,000 in this country. I don't believe that Planned Parenthood should get a penny from the federal government. Those organizations should get funding, just as I increased funding when I was governor of the state. 

That's the way you do this is you improve the condition for people. And,
Donald, when I was governor, we also increased the opportunities for women.

Women's income grew three times faster than the national average when I was
governor.


 We improved — we improved — 


 — we increased child support — we increased child support with a broken system by 90 percent. 


 I have a proven record. I have a proven record. 


 He did, he did. You're proud of your family, just as I am. 


 To subject my wife into the middle of a raucous political conversation was completely inappropriate, and I hope you apologize for that, Donald. 


 She is. She's fantastic. 


 She is absolutely the love of my life, and she's right here... 


 And why don't you apologize to her right now. 


 Yeah. 


 So, here's the deal. My wife is a Mexican-American. She's an American by choice. 

She loves this country as much as anybody in this room, and she wants a secure
border. But she wants to embrace the traditional American values that make us
special and make us unique.

We're at a crossroads right now. Are we going to take the Reagan approach, the
hopeful optimistic approach, the approach that says that, you come to our
country legally, you pursue your dreams with a vengeance, you create
opportunities for all of us?

Or the Donald Trump approach? The approach that says that everything is bad,
that everything is coming to an end. I...


 I'm on the Reagan side of this. 


 Look, first of all, I wrote a book about this, three — four years ago, now. And I laid out a comprehensive, conservative approach for immigration reform. 

And it does require securing the border. No one disagrees with that. But to
build a wall, and to deport people — half a million a month — would cost
hundreds of billions of dollars, Donald. Hundreds of billions of dollars. It
would destroy community life, it would tear families apart.

And it would send a signal to the rest of the world that the United States
values that are so important for our long-term success no longer matter in
this country. 


 Well, I've been speaking English here tonight, and I'll keep speaking English. 

But the simple fact is, if a high school kid asks me a question in Spanish, a
school — by the way, a voucher program that was created under my watch, the
largest voucher program in the country, where kids can go to a Christian
school, and they ask me a question in Spanish, I'm going to show respect and
answer that question in Spanish.

Even though they do speak English, and even though they embrace American
values. 


 Yeah. 


 Well, first of all, Hugh, if you're looking at Republican advisers, you have to go to the last two administrations. That happened to be 41 and 43. So just by definition, if you're — and many of the people here that are seeking advice from the foreign policy experts in the Republican side, they — they served in my dad's administration, my brother's administration. Of course that's the case. 

But I'm my own man. I'm going to create a strategy that is based on the simple
fact that the United States needs to lead the world. The first thing that we
need to do is to stop the craziness of the sequester.

Rebuild our military so that our — so that we don't deploy people over and
over again without the necessary equipment to keep them safe, to send a signal
to the world that we're serious. If we're going to lead the world, then we
need to have the strongest military possible.

We need to rebuild our counterintelligence and intelligence capabilities. We
need to focus on the fact that the next president is going to start in 2017,
not in 1990 — you know, 30 years ago, or when my brother started.

The world is dramatically different. And I believe that we need to restore
America's presence and leadership in the world. Name a country where our
relationship is better today than it was the — the day that Barack Obama got
elected president.

Under Hillary Clinton, and Barack Obama, we have seen a weakness that now
creates huge problems for the next president of the United States. So I'll
have a team that will be — that will be following the doctrine I set up, and
it will be peace through strength.

We're sitting here in this library, which is a wonderful place to talk about
this, because that's exactly what happened in the 1980s, and the world was a
lot safer because of...


 The leadership of Ronald Reagan and my... 


 So you — the — the first chance... 


 Right after me, and then I'll — I'll yield — yield the floor. What do you guys say in the Senate when you're talking and debating? 


 Here's the facts: When Donald Trump talks about judgment, what was his position on who would've been the best negotiator to deal with Iran? It wasn't a Republican; it was Hillary Clinton. That's what you believe. I mean, the lack of judgment and the lack of understanding about how the world works is really dangerous in this kind of time that we're saying. 

So is that the judgment that you bring to the table, that Hillary Clinton...


 ... is a great negotiator, that she could bring about a better deal on Iran? 


 You know what? As it relates to my brother, there's one thing I know for sure. He kept us safe. 

I don't know if you remember...  ... Donald...  ...
you remember the — the rumble? You remember the fire fighter with his arms
around it? He sent a clear signal that the United States would be strong and
fight Islamic terrorism, and he did keep us safe.


 That's — that's my brother. 


 Here's the lessons of history: When we — we pull back, voids are created. We left Iraq. We should've had a — a forces agreement to stay there with a small force, and instead of that, we politically and militarily pulled back, and now we have the creation of ISIS. 

36 days ago in this very library, I gave a speech with a comprehensive
strategy how to take out ISIS, and it requires American leadership and
engagement. We don't have to be the world's policemen. But we certainly have
to be the world's leader.

We need to have — make sure that the world knows that we're serious, that
we're engaged, that we're not going to pull back, that — that our — that our
word matters. And if we do that, we can create a force that will take out ISIS
both in Iraq and in Syria, which will take a lot longer time now...


 ... because of what President Obama's done by pulling back. 


 Well, I'm surprised Senator Cruz would say that since he was as strong supporter of John Roberts at the time. 

I will talk about what I will do as it relates to appointing Supreme Court
Justices. We need to make sure that we have justices that, with a proven
experienced record of respect for upholding the constitution. That is what we
need. We can't have — the history in recent past is appoint people that have
no experience so that you can't get attacked.

And, that makes it harder for people to have confidence that they won't veer
off...


 John Roberts has made some really good decisions, for sure, but he did not have a proven, extensive record that would have made the clarity the important thing, and that's what we need to do. And, I'm willing to fight for those nominees to make sure that they get passed. You can't do it the politically expedient way anymore. This is the culture in Washington. You have to fight hard for these appointments. This is perhaps the most important thing that the next president will do. 


 Well, first of all, he, as I said, supported John Roberts. He supported him, publicly. So, you can rewrite history, I guess, Ted, but the simple fact is that you supported him because he had all the criteria that you would have thought would have made a great justice. And, I think he is doing a good job. 

But, the simple fact is that going forward, what we need to do is to have
someone that has a long standing set of rulings that consistently makes it
clear that he is a focused, exclusively on upholding the Constitution of the
United States so they won't try to use the bench as a means to which
legislate.


 He was talking about me. 


 Well, I — I wanted to — be — make it easier for him. 


 And I just did. 


 So, 40 years ago, I smoked marijuana, and I admit it. I'm sure that other people might have done it and may not want to say it in front of 25 million people. My mom's not happy that I just did.  

That's true. And here's the deal. Here's the deal. We have — we have a serious
epidemic of drugs that goes way beyond marijuana. What goes on in Colorado, as
far as I'm concerned, that should be a state decision.

But if you look at the problem of drugs in this — in this society today, it's
a serious problem. Rand, you know this because you're campaigning in New
Hampshire like all of us, and you see the epidemic of heroin, the overdoses of
heroin that's taking place.

People's families are — are being torn apart. It is appropriate for the
government to play a consistent role to be able to provide more treatment,
more prevention — we're the state that has the most drug courts across every
circuit in — in — in Florida, there are drug courts to give people a second
chance.

That's the best way to do this.


 No, you're wrong — you're wrong about this. 


 I don't want to put poor people in jail, Randy. 


 Here's the deal. No, I did not oppose when the legislature passed the bill to deal with that very issue. That's the way to solve this problem. 

Medical marijuana on the ballot was opened up, there was a huge loophole, it
was the first step to getting to a  place. And as a citizen of
Florida, I voted no.


 Not very far. 

I think we need to do this state by state. There are places that get this
right, and we need to make sure that we protect the privacy laws. This is a
complicated place. But I do think the natural impulse on the left — Hillary
Clinton, immediately after one of these horrific violent acts took place,
immediately said we need to have federal gun laws. President Obama almost
reflexively always says the same thing.

And the net result is, you're going to take away rights of — of law-abiding
citizens, the 99.999 percent of the people that are law- abiding citizens.
That's not the right approach to do it.

In Florida, we have a background check. We have concealed-weapon permit
holders, and in fact, there's 1,200,000 of them. We have a reduction in
violent crime because we put people behind bars when they use a gun in the
commission of the crime. That's the better approach.

But we're living in a society today where despair kind of grows in isolation.


 I — I think there needs to be a hearing, but the fact is, we need to encourage that kind of involvement. That's — that's exactly what we need to do. 




 I would go with Ronald Reagan's partner, Margaret Thatcher. Probably illegal, but what the heck?  Since it's not going to happen. A strong leader is what we need in the White House, and she certainly was a strong leader that restored the United Kingdom into greatness. 


 Ever Ready, it's very high energy, Donald.  


 Six million more people are living in poverty than the day that Barack Obama got elected president. Six million more people. The middle class has had declining income, workforce participation rates are lower than they were in 1977. 

For the first time in modern history, more businesses are failing than are
being created. That is what the next president will have to deal with.

And I believe we can reverse course by creating a strategy of high sustained
economic growth, not the new normal of 2 percent that all the left says we
just have to get used to, but a 4 percent growth strategy where we reform how
we tax, fix the broken regulatory system, embrace the energy revolution in our
midst, fix the immigration system so we can turn it into an economic driver,
deal with the structural fiscal problems that exist because of our entitlement
problems that will overwhelm and create way too much debt.

If we grow at 4 percent, people are going to be lifted out of poverty. The
great middle that defines our country will have a chance to be able to pursue
their dreams as they see fit.

That should be the great challenge and the great opportunity for the next
president of the United States, to forge consensus to go back to a high-growth
strategy. And then we'll be able to lead the world.

Without a high-growth strategy, our country will never have the resources or
the optimism to be able to lead the world, which the world desperately needs
our leadership. 


 You know, I am by my nature impatient. And this is not an endeavor that rewards that. You gotta be patient. You gotta be — stick with it, and all that.

But also, I can't fake anger. I believe this is still the most extraordinary
country on the face of the Earth. And it troubles me that people are rewarded
for tearing down our country. It's never been that way in American politics
before.

I can't do it. I just don't believe that this country's days are going to be
deeply — you know, going down. I think we're on the verge of the greatest
time, and I want to fix the things to let people rise up.


 Could I — could I bring something up here, because I'm a constituent of the senator and I helped him and I expected that he would do constituent service, which means that he shows up to work. He got endorsed by the Sun-Sentinel because he was the most talented guy in the field. He's a gifted politician.

But Marco, when you signed up for this, this was a six-year term, and you
should be showing up to work. I mean, literally, the Senate — what is it, like
a French work week? You get, like, three days where you have to show up? You
can campaign, or just resign and let someone else take the job. There are a
lot of people living paycheck to paycheck in Florida as well, they're looking
for a senator that will fight for them each and every day.


 He wasn't my senator.


 Well, I've been —


 No, no. What I said was I don't believe that I would be president of the United States and have the same dysfunction that exists in Washington, D.C. now.


 Don't vote for me if you want to keep the gridlock in Washington, D.C.


 But if you want someone who has a proven, effective leadership, that was a governor of a state, that transformed the culture there, elect me so I can fight for the American people and change the culture in Washington, D.C.


 , the great majority of Republicans and Americans believe in a hopeful future. They don't believe in building walls and a pessimistic view of the future.

They're concerned that Washington is so dysfunctional it is holding them back.
There are lids on people's aspirations. Think about it: six and a half million
people working part-time. Workforce participation rates lower than they were
in 1977.

Six million more people living in poverty than the day that Barack Obama got
elected president, and the left just wants more of the same. We have to offer
a compelling alternative that is based on hope and optimism and grounded in
serious policy, which I've laid out.

And you can go get it at jeb2016.com.


 Well, the deal was done. Barack Obama got his massive tax increase, and there was no spending cuts. You just see the recent deal announced today or yesterday, more spending, more tax increasing, more regulation. And now we have to accept 2 percent, the new normal for economic growth.

And the net result is the middle class has $2,300 less in their pockets than
the day that Barack Obama got elected president. And now they see Hillary
Clinton proposing a third term of economic policy for our country.

We need to reverse that. And my record was one of cutting taxes each and every
year. You don't have to guess about it, because I actually have a record. $19
billion of tax cuts, 1.3 million jobs created. We were one of two states to go
to AAA bond rating, and our government spending was far less than the spending
in people's income.


 You find me...


 You find me a Democrat — you find me a Democrat that will cut spending ten dollars? Heck, find me a Republican in Congress that would cut spending ten dollars. I'll talk to them.


 Look, the — the deal is already done. The biggest tax increase happened under the watch of Barack Obama, and spending's gone up. You find a Democrat that's for cutting taxes — cutting spending ten dollars, I'll give them a warm kiss. 


 Look, the — the simple fact is that my plan actually gives the middle class the greatest break: $2,000 per family. And if you make $40,000 a year, a family of four, you don't pay any income tax at all.

Simplifying the code and lowering rates, both for corporations and — and
personal rates, is exactly what we need to do. You think about the regulatory
cost and the tax cost — that's why small businesses are closing, rather than
being formed in our country right now.

The big corporations have the scale to deal with all of this. And what I think
all of us are saying is, our monetary policy, our tax policy, regulatory
policy needs to be radically changed so we can create high sustained growth
for income to rise.

The government has tried it their way. Under — under Barack Obama and the
proposals of Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders and others, they've tried it
their way, and it has failed miserably.

We need to take a new approach of taxing — reforming how we tax, and reforming
the regulations in our — in our country before it's too late.


 We don't need the federal government to be involved in this at all.


 We don't need the Federal Government to be involved in this, because when they do we create a $1.2 trillion debt.

In Florida, we have the lowest in-state tuition of any state, because there's
accountability, just as John said. Let the states do this. You'll create a
much better graduation rate at a lower cost, and you won't in debt the next
generation with recourse debt on their backs.

It's always a solution of the left to create more Government from the Federal
Government. It is broke, it is not working.




 Well, first of all, I'm 7 and 0 in my fantasy league.


 Gronkowski is still going strong. I have Ryan Tannehill, Marco, as my quarterback, he was 18 for 19 last week. So I'm doing great. But we're not gambling.

And I think this has become something that needs to be looked at in terms of
regulation. Effectively it is day trading without any regulation at all. And
when you have insider information, which apparently has been the case, where
people use that information and use big data to try to take advantage of it,
there has to be some regulation.

If they can't regulate themselves, then the NFL needs to look at just, you
know, moving away from them a little bit. And there should be some regulation.
I have no clue whether the federal government is the proper place, my instinct
is to say, hell no, just about everything about the federal government.




 Becky —


 — the governor's absolutely right. But we also need to reform Medicare and Social Security. We can't just allow it to continue on its current path the way that Hillary Clinton wants to do because there'll be major reductions in benefits in the next decade if we do nothing.

I have a concrete plan to do just that, which allows people to keep HSAs to
encourage savings, it allows for people that are retiring with Social Security
to be able to get a minimum of 125 percent of the poverty level so that there
is a baseline that in this generous country of ours no one goes below.


 You have to reform Social Security, and the simple way to do it is to make sure that the wealthiest don't receive the same benefits as people that are lower-income.

And make sure you enhance savings in the private market. The idea of 401(k)s.
I have a small business that I set up. It took — it took an arm and a leg to
be able to set up a 401(k). Because of all the federal mandates and federal
laws, it was too expensive.

We need to incent private savings and make sure that Social Security is
protected for those that have it.


 But the idea that you can't — that you're just gonna grow your way out of this — I have a plan to grow the economy at 4 percent, but you're gonna have to make adjustments for both Medicare and Social Security.

: Governor Kasich, do you want 30 seconds?


 America's at a crossroads. The D.C. politicians continue to make things worse. I have a proven record of success, 32 years in business, and 8 years as Governor of the state of Florida.

I will change the culture in Washington, just as I changed the culture in
Tallahassee. I will do so in a way that will bring people together. We need a
unifier, not a cynical divider in chief, and that's exactly what I will do.

Imagine a country where people are lifted out of poverty again. Imagine a
country where the middle class can get rising income again. I know we can do
this because we're still the most extraordinary country on the face of the
Earth.


 You've already made two comments, John. It's my turn.


 I got about four minutes in the last debate. I'm going to get my question right now.


 Yes.


 First of all, we could get to 4 percent growth. The new normal of 2 percent puts huge demands on government. The reason why we have structural deficits is that more and more people are relying on government and the growth that we don't have makes — makes the deficit grow.

A 4 percent growth strategy starts with tax reform. And the proposal that I've
laid out is the one the Wall Street Journal editorial board has said is the
most pro-growth of all the proposals out there. We cut the — we eliminate a
lot of deductions and cut the rates down. A corporate rate of 20 percent,
which puts us 5 percent above — below that of China, and allows us full
expensing of investing. It would create an explosion of investment back into
this country, creating higher-wage jobs, and so that's part of it.

On the regulatory side I think we need to repeal every rule that Barack Obama
has in terms of work in progress, every one of them. 

And start over. For those that are already in existence, the regulation of the
Internet, we have to start over, but we ought to do that.

The clean power act, we ought to repeal that and — and start over on that. The
waters of the United States act, which is going to be devastating for
agriculture and many industries, we should repeal that. We should repeal the
rules because the economic costs of this far exceed the social benefit.

And if we're serious about being serious about high growth, then we have to
recognize that small businesses right now, more of them are closing than —
than are — than are being set up.

Hillary Clinton has said that Barack Obama's policies get an A. Really? One in
10 people right now aren't working or have given up altogether, as you said.
That's not an A. One in seven people are living in poverty. That's not an A.
One in five children are on food stamps. That is not an A. It may be the best
that Hillary Clinton can do, but it's not the best America can do.



 Thank you, Donald, for allowing me to speak at the debate. That's really nice of you. Really appreciate that. 

What a generous man you are. Twelve million illegal immigrants, to send them
back, 500,000 a month, is just not — not possible. And it's not embracing
American values. And it would tear communities apart. And it would send a
signal that we're not the kind of country that I know America is.

And even having this conversation sends a powerful signal — they're doing
high-fives in the Clinton campaign right now when they hear this. That's the
problem with this. We have to win the presidency. And the way you win the
presidency is to have practical plans. Lay them out there. What we need to do
is allow people to earn legal status where they pay a fine, where they work,
where they don't commit crimes, where they learn English, and over an extended
period of time, they earn legal status. That's the path — a proper path...





 I'm gonna fight as hard as I can to make sure that we shift power away from Washington, simplify the tax code, to spur economic activity in this country. Of course it's the highest priority.

If we don't do that, we're stuck with the "new normal" of 2 percent growth.
Hillary Clinton says, basically, we just gotta get used to it. Two percent
growth means declining income for the middle class. It means more than 6
million people are stuck in poverty than the day that Barack Obama was
inaugurated.

It means — it means more demands on government — growing the economy is the
first job, if we're going to be serious about dealing with the deficit and
debt. And more importantly, people are really struggling right now.

In this economy, the disposable income of the great middle is down 2,300
bucks. So yeah, we've created jobs, your — argue (ph) — brought that up early,
and it was a good question. Jobs are being created, but they're lower-income
jobs than the jobs that were lost.

And the net effect of this is we need to jump-start the economy. I think of
Jonathan (ph) and Reagan Love (ph), who are supporters of mine. Jonathan has
been deployed by the National Guard, he is — he's in Oklahoma.

Reagan Love — by the way, pretty great name, I think — is a teacher. When — if
they had this tax cut, what they told me was that that $2,300 of money in
their pocket — they would go back to South Carolina and start a business.

Imagine what it would be like, instead of having more businesses closed than
started, we had it the exact opposite. We would grow our economy, and the
government would get the revenue necessary to make things — make things
better.

Hillary Clinton's approach to this is more top-down, more regulation, more
taxes, more government, and it will destroy our economy. 


 It is — I'd say it is Islamic terrorism, and, back to the question of what we are dealing with in Iraq, when we pull back voids are filled. That's the lesson of history, and, sadly, this president does not believe in American leadership. He does not believe it, and the net result is that we have a caliphate the size of Indiana that gains energy each and everyday to recruit Americans in our own country, and the threat to the homeland relates to the fact that we have not dealt with this threat of terror in the Middle East.

We should have a no fly zone in Syria. We should have a support for the
remnants of the Syrian Free Army, and create safe zones. If you want to deal
with the four million refugees that are leaving Syria because of the
devastation there, then we 'ought to create safe zones for them to stay in the
region rather than go to Europe. And, that requires American leadership.

Without American leadership every other country in the neighborhood beings to
change their priorities. It is tragic that you see Iraq, and other countries
now talking to Russia. It wasn't that long ago that Russia had no influence in
the region at all. And, so, the United States needs to lead across the board.

This president, and Hillary Clinton both do not believe the United States has
a leadership role to play, and we're now paying a price, and it will have a
huge impact on the economy of this country if we don't deal with this.



 ...They're not doing that...


 


 Donald — Donald's wrong on this. He is absolutely wrong on this. We're not going to be the world's policeman, but we sure as heck better be the world's leader. That's — there's a huge difference where, without us leading...  ...voids are filled, and the idea that it's a good idea for Putin to be in Syria, let ISIS take out Assad, and then Putin will take out ISIS? I mean, that's like a board game, that's like playing Monopoly or something. That's not how the real world works. 

We have to lead, we have to be involved. We should have a no fly zone in
Syria. There are — they are barrel bombing the innocents in that country. If
you're a Christian, increasingly in Lebanon, or Iraq, or Syria, you're going
to be beheaded. And, if you're a moderate Islamist, you're not going to be
able to survive either.

We have to play a role in this be able to bring the rest of the world to this
issue before it's too late.


 We're not — we shouldn't have another financial crisis. What we ought to do is raise the capital requirements so banks aren't too big to fail. Dodd-Frank has actually done the opposite, totally the opposite, where banks now have higher concentration of risk in assets and the capital requirements aren't high enough. If we were serious about it, we would raise the capital requirements and lessen the load on the community banks and other financial institutions. This vast overreach has created a huge problem for our country, and Hillary Clinton wants to double down on that.

I was in Washington, Iowa, about three months ago talking about how bad
Washington, D.C., is. It was — get the — kind of the — anyway. We had...


It — and I talked to a banker there. This is a bank that had $125 million of
assets, four branches. Their compliance costs because of Dodd-Frank went from
$100,000 to $600,000 in a two-year period. The net effect of that is — and
they had — they had not one loan that went bad during the financial crisis.
They knew — they knew their borrowers. They gave back to the community. They
were engaged in the community. And imagine America without its community
banks. Well, that's what's happening because of Dodd-Frank. That's — that's my
worry. My worry is that the real economy has been hurt by the vast overreach
of the Obama administration.

And Hillary Clinton, she wants to double down on that. She wants to create
even more so. She is a captive of the left of her party to the point now where
she is — she was for the trade agreement in — the Pacific agreement. Now she's
against it. She was — hinted she was for the XL pipeline. Now she's opposed to
it. All the things that would create sustained economic growth she's now
doubling down against it.


 You could, if you were serious about...


 No, I can't say that. But I can say, if you created higher capital requirements, that's the solution to this, not having concentration of assets. The bigger banks now have more and more control over — over the financial assets of this country. And that is the wrong approach to take.


 Maria? 


 ...We've had a 10% reduction in carbon emissions, and it isn't because of Solyndra. It isn't because of the central planners in Washington D.C. It's because we've had a great American success story, the explosion of natural gas.

Taking two existing technologies, and applying it through innovation has
created lower carbon emissions, lower energy costs — 40% of all the economic
activity in the age of Obama has come from the energy sector, and Hillary
Clinton wants to suppress that. We — I think we ought to be expanding this.
High growth is the path to lower carbon, and more jobs.

I know for a fact, as Governor of the State of Florida, we created the largest
land purchasing programs, and environment clean-up programs because we had a
growing economy. Our revenues were growing at 4.4%. It allowed for resources
to be able to protect the natural system.

We got to get to a conservation...  ...in environmental policy
that goes beyond just carbon...


 Jane Horton is sitting with my wife here today. Her husband, Chris, was killed in action in Afghanistan. And Jane spends her time now defending and fighting for military families. They're both heroes.

I don't think we need an agitator-in-chief or a divider-in-chief. We need a
commander-in-chief that will rebuild our military and restore respect to our
veterans by revamping and fixing a broken Veterans Administration, That's my
pledge to you. I ask for your support. Thank you. 


 Our freedom is under attack. Our economy is under water. The leading democrat is under investigation. And America is under the gun to lead the free world to protect our civilized way of life.

Serious times require strong leadership, that's what at stake right now.
Regarding national security, we need to restore the defense cuts of Barack
Obama to rebuild our military, to destroy ISIS before it destroys us.
Regarding economic security, we need to take power and money away from
Washington D.C. and empower American families so that they can rise up again.

Look, America still is an exceptional country. We love to lead and we love to
win. And we do it, when we take on any challenge and when we take – we support
our friends.

As president, I will keep you and our country safe, secure, and free.

Thank you.


 Well, first of all, we need to destroy ISIS in the caliphate. That's — that should be our objective. The refugee issue will be solved if we destroy ISIS there, which means we need to have a no-fly zone, safe zones there for refugees and to build a military force.

We need to embed our forces — our troops inside the Iraqi military. We need to
arm directly the Kurds. And all of that has to be done in concert with the
Arab nations. And if we're going to ban all Muslims, how are we going to get
them to be part of a coalition to destroy ISIS?

The Kurds are the greatest fighting force and our strongest allies. They're
Muslim. Look, this is not a serious proposal. In fact, it will push the Muslim
world, the Arab world away from us at a time when we need to reengage with
them to be able to create a strategy to destroy ISIS.

So Donald, you know, is great at — at the one-liners, but he's a chaos
candidate. And he'd be a chaos president. He would not be the commander in
chief we need to keep our country safe. 


 Look, he mentioned me. I can bring — I can talk. This is — this is the problem. Banning all Muslims will make it harder for us to do exactly what we need to do, which is to destroy ISIS. We need a strategy. We need to get the lawyers off the back of the warfighters. Right now under President Obama, we've created this — this standard that is so high that it's impossible to be successful in fighting ISIS.

We need to engage with the Arab world to make this happen. It is not a serious
proposal to say that — to the people that you're asking for their support that
they can't even come to the country to even engage in a dialogue with us.
That's not a serious proposal. We need a serious leader to deal with this. And
I believe I'm that guy. 


 They are relevant if we want to destroy ISIS. If we want to destroy radical Islamic terrors, we can't disassociate ourselves from peace loving Muslims. If we expect to do this on our own, we will fail but if we do it in unison with people who are also are at risk and threatened by Islamic Radical terrorism, we'll be far more successful.

Look, the FBI has the tools necessary un-American activities in our country.
It goes on, we shouldn't even be talking about it, to be honest with you out
in the public. Of course they have those capabilities and we should make sure
that we give the FBI, the NSA, our intelligence communities, all the resources
they need to keep us safe.

But the main thing we should be focused on is the strategy to destroy ISIS.
And I laid out a plan that the Reagan Library before the tragedy of Paris, and
before San Bernardino to do just that. It requires leadership, it's not filing
an amendment and call it a success.

It is developing a strategy, leading the world, funding it to make sure that
we have a military that's second to none, and doing the job and making sure
that we destroy ISIS there. That's how you keep America safe.


 Donald, this has got...


 This is another example of the lack of seriousness. Look, this is — this is troubling because we're at war. They've declared war on us and we need to have a serious strategy to destroy ISIS.

But the idea that that is a solution to this is just — is just crazy. It makes
no sense to suggest this. Look, two months ago Donald Trump said that ISIS was
not our fight. Just two months ago he said that Hillary Clinton would be a
great negotiator with Iran. And he gets his foreign policy experience from the
shows.

That is not a serious kind of candidate. We need someone that thinks this
through. That can lead our country to safety and security. 


 You said on September 30th that ISIS was not a factor.


 I'm talking right now. I'm talking.


 September 30th you said...


 A little of your own medicine there, Donald.


 Donald, you're not going to be able to insult your way to the presidency. That's not going to happen. 

And I do have the strength. Leadership, leadership is not about attacking
people and disparaging people. Leadership is about creating a serious strategy
to deal with the threat of our time.

And I laid out that strategy before the attacks in Paris and before the
attacks in San Bernardino. And it is the way forward. We need to increase our
military spending. We need to deal with a no- fly zone in Syria, a safe zone.
We need to focus on building a military that is second-to-none...


 ... so that we can destroy Islamic terrorism.


 I think we're focusing a whole...


 I do. I think the lesson's learned are that we have to have to have a strategy to get and a strategy to get out. Which means, that you create a stable situation.

This president and this is what the focus ought to be, it's not the
differences between us, it's Barack Obama does not believe America's
leadership in the world is a force for good. He does not believe that our
strength is a place where security can take place. He leads from behind. He
creates an environment that now we're creating the most unstable situation
we've had since the World War II era.

The focus ought to be on the single fact that Hillary Clinton wants to double
down on a failed foreign policy and we need to be united to defeat that
because we're going to be in a place that is far less secure than it is today.
Don't you all agree?


 Because I — first of all, I know what I don't know. I know what I don't know. I would seek out, as I have, the best advice that exists. I won't get my information from the shows. I don't know if that's Saturday morning or Sunday morning. I don't know which one. 

I will seek out the best advice, and I will create a strategy and I will
persuade the American people what the role of America should be. I've laid out
a policy of rebuilding our military.

All of the talk that we're seeing here — most of which I agree on, frankly —
requires a much stronger military. We now have a lack of readiness that is
quite scary. We have planes that were — that Harry Truman inaugurated, the
B-52. We have — the Navy has been gutted and decimated. The readiness of the
Marines is way down.

If we're serious about America's leadership in the world, then we need to make
sure that we have the back of the armed forces. The Armed Forces Radio is here
listening to this today. I hope they know that if I'm president, I'll be a
commander-in-chief, not an agitator- in-chief or a divider-in-chief, that I
will lead this country in a way that will create greater security and greater
safety.


 So I was — I was — I was mentioned, so I can bring up something, I think, right? Look, the simple fact is, if you think this is tough you're not being treated fairly...


 ... imagine what it's going to be like dealing with Putin or dealing with President Xi.


 Or dealing with the Islamic terrorism that exists.


 This is a tough business to run for president.


 And it's — and we need...... to have a leader that is...


 You're never going to be president of the United States by insulting your way to the presidency.


 Doesn't matter. Doesn't matter.


 Yes.


 No it isn't but it is an important subject to talk about for sure. And I think people have good ideas on this. Clearly, we need to secure the border. Coming here legally needs to be a lot easier than coming here illegally.

If you don't have that, you don't have the rule of law. We now have a national
security consideration, public health issues, we have an epidemic of heroine
overdoses in all places in this country because of the ease of bringing
heroine in. We have to secure the border.

It is a serious undertaking and yes, we do need more fencing and we do need to
use technology, and we do need more border control. And we need to have better
cooperation by the way with local law enforcement. There are 800,000 cops on
the beat, they ought to be trained to be the eyes and ears for law enforcement
for the threat against terror as well as for immigration.

This is a serious challenge and if we can get it right, yes, we'll start
winning votes again. The real problem isn't anybody on this stage, the real
problem is Barack Obama has had six years to advocate a position to fix this
and he's done nothing. The congress has funded these programs of building more
fencing and doing all this and he hasn't done it.

He wants to maintain it as a wedge issue and so does Hillary Clinton.
Republicans need to fix it and when we do, we'll be better off.


 I completely agree with Chris. And this administration has been so lax. Think about it. Hillary Clinton is using a private server for — where classified information go by. This is a — this is a serious administration?

The president receives an inspector general's report that the Office of
Personnel Management could be hacked into; they had antiquated firewalls; 23
million files have been — are in the hands of the Chinese allegedly,
including, by the way, members of the press, it turns out, last week. Maybe
that's the only part that's good news, so that you guys can get a feel for
what it's like now to see this type of attack.

This is something — we have to have the best defensive capabilities. We need
to coordinate all of our efforts with the private sector. We need to give them
liability relief so that we can do that. And offensively, we need to have
capabilities second to none. We need to create a situation where they know
that there will be adverse impacts if they continue to do what they're doing.

They'll respect that. They'll respect a United States that is serious about
protecting our — our infrastructure. If we don't do it, we'll continue to see
what's — exactly what's happening, not just from the Chinese, by the way. The
Russians and rogue actors, including ISIS — this is a serious part of the 21st
century security challenge that we face.


 Ask yourself, which candidate will keep you and our country safer, stronger and freer?

Hillary Clinton has aligned herself with Barack Obama on ISIS, Iran and the
economy. It's an alliance doomed to fail. My proven record suggests that — my
detailed plans will fortify our national and economic security. And my proven
record as governor makes — will give you a sense that I don't make false
promises. I deliver real results.

For America to be safe and sound, I ask for you support. Thank you all very
much.


 Well first of all, the idea that somehow we're better off today than the day that Barack Obama was inaugurated president of the United States is totally an alternative universe. The simple fact is that the world has been torn asunder.

Think about it. With grandiose language, the president talks about red lines
and nothing to follow it up; talks about ISIS being the JV team, they form a
caliphate the size of Indiana with 35 (thousand) to 40,000 battle-tested
terrorists. He's missing the whole point, that America's leadership in the
world is required for peace and stability.

In the crowd today is Major General James Livingston, who's the co-chairman of
my campaign here in South Carolina, a Medal of Honor recipient. 

I've learned from him that what we need to achieve is peace through strength,
which means we need to rebuild the military. In this administration, every
weapon system has been gutted, in this administration, the force levels are
going down to a level where we can't even project force. Our friends no longer
think we have their back and our enemies no longer fear us, and we're in a
much difficult — we're in a much different position than we should be.

And for the life of me, I have no understanding why the president thinks that
everything is going well. Terrorism is on the run, China, Russia is advancing
their agenda at warp speed, and we pull back.

As president of the United States, I will be a commander in chief that will
have the back of the military. We will rebuild the military to make sure that
it is a solid force, not to be the world's policeman, but to make sure that in
a peaceful world, people know that the United States is there to take care of
our own national interests and take care of our allies. 


 No. And worse — worse yet, to be honest with you, Hillary Clinton would be a national security disaster.

Think about it. She wants to continue down the path of Iran, Benghazi, the
Russian reset, Dodd-Frank, all the things that have — that have gone wrong in
this country, she would be a national security mess. And that is wrong.

And you know what? Here's the problem. If she gets elected, she's under
investigation with the FBI right now. If she gets elected, her first 100 days,
instead of setting an agenda, she might be going back and forth between the
White House and the courthouse. We need to stop that. [_laughter and
applause_]


 Neil, my name was mentioned here. Neil, my name was mentioned as well.

Here's the deal, Chris is totally right. He's been a good governor, and he's a
heck of a lot better than his predecessor that would have bankrupted New
Jersey.

Everybody on this stage is better than Hillary Clinton. And I think the focus
ought to be on making sure that we leave this nomination process, as wild and
woolly as it's going to be — this is not being bad.

These attack ads are going to be part of life. Everybody just needs to get
used to it. Everybody's record's going to be scrutinized, and at the end of
the day we need to unite behind the winner so we can defeat Hillary Clinton,
because she is a disaster. 

Our country rise up again, but we need to have a compelling conservative
agenda that we present to the American people in a way that doesn't disparage
people, that unites us around our common purpose.

And so everybody needs to discount some of the things you're going to hear in
these ads, and discount the — the back-and-forth here, because every person
here is better than Hillary Clinton.


 First of all, I'd like to recognize Governor Haley for her incredible leadership in the aftermath of the —  — the Emanuel AME church killings. And I also want to recognize the people in that church that showed the grace of God and the grace of forgiveness and the mercy that they showed.  I don't know if any of us could have done what they did, one after another, within 48 hours of that tragedy taking place. Look, here's the deal, in this particular case, the FBI made a mistake. The law itself requires a background check, but that didn't fulfill their part of the bargain within the time that they were supposed to do. 

We don't need to add new rules, we need to make sure the FBI does its job.
Because that person should not have gotten a gun, should not — would not have
passed a background check. The first impulse of Barack Obama and Hillary
Clinton is to take rights away from law- abiding citizens.

That's what they do, whether it's the San Bernardino attack or if it's these
tragedies that take place, I think we need to focus on what the bigger issue
is. It isn't law-abiding gun owners.

Look, I have an A plus rating in the NRA and we also have a reduction in gun
violence because in Florida, if you commit a crime with a gun, you're going
away. You're going away for a long, long while.

And that's what we should focus on is the violence in our communities. Target
the efforts for people that are committing crimes with guns, and if you do
that, and get it right, you're going to be much better off than creating a
political argument where there's a big divide.

The other issue is mental health. That's a serious issue that we could work
on. Republicans and Democrats alike believe this.  The president's
first impulse is do this by executive order, power he doesn't have. Why not go
to Congress and in a bipartisan way, begin to deal with the process of mental
health issues so that people that are spiraling out of control because of
mental health challenges don't have access to guns. 


 Well, first of all, under President Jeb Bush, we would restore the strength of the military. Last week, Secretary Carter announced that the Navy's going to be cut again. It's now half the size of what it was prior to Operation Desert Storm.

The deployments are too high for the military personnel. We don't have
procurement being done for refreshing the equipment. The B-52 is still
operational as the long range bomber; it was inaugurated in the age of Harry
Truman. The planes are older than the pilots. We're gutting our military, and
so the Iranians and the Chinese and the Russians and many other countries look
at the United States not as serious as we once were.

We have to eliminate the sequester, rebuild our military in a way that makes
it clear that we're back in the game.

Secondly, as it relates to Iran, we need to confront their ambitions across
the board. We should reimpose sanctions, they've already violated sanctions
after this agreement was signed by testing medium-range missiles.

Thirdly, we need to move our embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem to send a
serious signal that we're back in the game with Israel......and
sign an agreement that makes sure that the world knows that they will have
technological superiority.

We need to get back in the game as it relates to our Arab nations. The rest of
the world is moving away from us towards other alliances because we are weak.
This president and John Kerry and Hillary Clinton all have made it harder for
the next president to act, but he must act to confront the ambitions of Iran.
We can get back in the game to restore order and security for our own country.



 Donald, Donald — can I — I hope you reconsider this, because this policy is a policy that makes it impossible to build the coalition necessary to take out ISIS. The Kurds are our strongest allies. They're Muslim. You're not going to even allow them to come to our country?

The other Arab countries have a role to play in this. We cannot be the world's
policeman. We can't do this unilaterally. We have to do this in unison with
the Arab world. And sending that signal makes it impossible for us to be
serious about taking out ISIS and restoring democracy in Syria. 

So I hope you'll reconsider. I hope you'll reconsider. The better way of
dealing with this — the better way of dealing with this is recognizing that
there are people in, you know, the — Islamic terrorists inside, embedded in
refugee populations.

What we ought to do is tighten up our efforts to deal with the entry visa
program so that a citizen from Europe, it's harder if they've been traveling
to Syria or traveling to these other places where there is Islamic terrorism,
make it harder — make the screening take place.

We don't have to have refugees come to our country, but all Muslims,
seriously? What kind of signal does that send to the rest of the world that
the United States is a serious player in creating peace and security?


 Yeah, they are unhinged. 


 No, not at all, absolutely not. I can see why people are angry and scared, because this president has created a condition where our national security has weakened dramatically. I totally get that. But we're running for the presidency of the United States here. This isn't — this isn't, you know, a different kind of job. You have to lead. You cannot make rash statements and expect the rest of the world to respond as though, well, it's just politics.

Every time we send signals like this, we send a signal of weakness, not
strength. And so it was  his statement, which is why I'm asking
him to consider changing his views. 


 So, are we going to ban Muslims from India, from Indonesia, from countries that are strong allies — that we need to build better relationships with? Of course not. What we need to do is destroy ISIS.

I laid out a plan at the Citadel to do just that and it starts with creating a
"No Fly Zone" and "Safe Zones" to make sure refugees are there. We need to
lead a force, a Sunni led force inside of Syria. We need to embed with — with
the Iraqi military. We need to arm the Kurds the directly. We need to re-
establish the relationships with the Sunnis.

We need the lawyers off the back of the war fighters. That's how you solve the
problem. You don't solve it by big talk where you're banning all Muslims and
making it harder for us to build the kind of coalition for us to be
successful.


 Absolutely.


 Yeah.


 Here's — apart from the — apart from the higher prices on consumers and people are living paycheck to paycheck, apart from that, there will be retaliation.


 So they soybean sales from Iowa, entire soybean production goes — the equivalent of it goes to China. Or how about Boeing right here within a mile? Do you think that the Chinese, if they had a 45 percent tariff imposed on all their imports wouldn't retaliate and start buying Airbus? Of course, they would. This would be devastating for the economy. We need someone with a steady hand being president of the United States.


 They're a mile away from here.


 My name was mentioned. My name was mentioned here. The simple fact is that the plane that's being build here is being sold to China. You can — if you — you flew in with your 767, didn't you? Right there, right next to the plant.


 When you head back to airport tonight, go check and see what the...


 Check it out. 


 There's — look, there's —


 I would try to convince him otherwise, but this last back and forth between two senators — back bench senators, you know, explains why we have the mess in Washington, D.C. We need a president that will fix our immigration laws and stick with it, not bend with the wind.

The simple fact is one of the ways, Maria, to solve the problem you described
is narrow the number of people coming by family petitioning to what every
other country has so that we have the best and the brightest that come to our
country. We need to control the border, we need to do all of this in a
comprehensive way, not just going back and forth and talking about stuff —


 Oh, I'll talk about that, too. But you haven't asked me a question in a while, Neil, so I thought I'd get that off my chest if you don't mind. 


 I got that. And the problem today is there's no confidence in Washington, D.C. There needs to be more than one meeting, there needs to complete dialogue with the large technology companies. They understand that there's a national security risk. We ought to give them a little bit of a liability release so that they share data amongst themselves and share data with the federal government, they're not fearful of a lawsuit.

We need to make sure that we keep the country safe. This is the first
priority. The cybersecurity challenges that we face, this administration
failed us completely, completely. Not just the hacking of OPM, but that is —
that is just shameful. 23 million files in the hands of the Chinese? So it's
not just the government — the private sector companies, it's also our own
government that needs to raise the level of our game.

We should put the NSA in charge of the civilian side of this as well. That
expertise needs to spread all across the government and there needs to be much
more cooperation with our private sector.


 You've got to keep asking. You've got to keep asking because this is a hugely important issue. If you can encrypt messages, ISIS can, over these platforms, and we have no ability to have a cooperative relationship —


 Well, if the law would change, yeah. But I think there has to be recognition that if we — if we are too punitive, then you'll go to other — other technology companies outside the United States. And what we want to do is to control this.

We also want to dominate this from a commercial side. So there's a lot of
balanced interests. But the president leads in this regard. That's what we
need. We need leadership, someone who has a backbone and sticks with things,
rather than just talks about them as though anything matters when you're
talking about amendments that don't even actually are part of a bill that ever
passed.


 Who can you count on to keep us safer, stronger and freer? Results count, and as governor, I pushed Florida up to the top in terms of jobs, income and small business growth.

Detailed plans count, and I believe that the plan I've laid out to destroy
ISIS before the tragedies of San Bernardino and Paris are the right ones.

Credibility counts. There'll be people here that will talk about what they're
going to do. I've done it. I ask for your support to build, together, a safer
and stronger America. 


 Bret, we're just starting. The first vote hasn't been counted. Why don't we let the process work. I trust Iowans, Granite staters, people in South Carolina, people in Nevada, to start this process out. I kind of miss Donald Trump. He was a little teddy bear to me. 

We always had such a loving relationship in these debates and in between and
the tweets. I kind of miss him. I wish he was here. Everybody else was in the
witness protection program when I went after him on behalf of what the
Republican cause should be: conservative principles, believing in limited
government, believing in accountability. Leading by fixing the things that are
broken.

Look, I am in the establishment because my dad, the greatest man alive was
president of the United States and my brother, who I adore as well as
fantastic brother was president. Fine, I'll take it. I guess I'm part of the
establishment Barbara Bush is my mom. I'll take that, too. 

But this election is not about our pedigree, this is an election about people
that are really hurting. We need a leader that will fix things and have a
proven record to do it. And we need someone who will take on Hillary Clinton
in November. Someone who has a proven record, who has been tested, who is
totally transparent. I released 34 years of tax returns...  ...
and 300,000 e-mails in my government record. To get the information from
Hillary Clinton, you need to get a subpoena from the FBI. 


 No, you weren't. Your name wasn't mentioned, Ted.


 ... Chris, keep it coming...


 ... Thank you Chris...


 Well, first, I was critical of the Senators not giving the authorization for the use of military force. They should have made it more open ended for the next president. We shouldn't have the war fighters have their arms tied behind their back as President Obama wanted to do, but they had a chance to show support and it wasn't popular at the time. It became popular after the attack in Paris, and San Bernardino. Now we hear the tough talk.

Prior to that, in the Reagan Library, I gave a detailed plan. Exactly what to
do as it relates to ISIS. And it is from the lessons from history that we do
this because if we allow this to fester, we're going to have Islamic
terrorism, multi-generations of it all across this country. The caliphate of
ISIS has to be destroyed, which means we need to arm directly to Kurds, imbed
our troops with the Iraqi military, re engage with the Sunni tribal leaders.
Get the lawyers off the damn backs of the military once and for all.


Have a no fly zone in Syria and create safe zones to deal with the refugees.
But, more importantly, to train a Sunni-led force in Syria to take out ISIS
with our support...  ... ground and air. That's what we need to
to, and I laid that out prior to the crisis with the advice of a lot of
people, including 12 Medal of Honor recipients that I'm proud that they're
supporting my campaign. 


 Of course. And there's all sorts of ways that can be done at the state, local and federal level to do that. But the first duty of the next president of the United States is to fix the mess at the Department of Veterans Affairs. That's his first responsibility. 

Look, we have waiting lists for veterans that are — that are leaving because
of the sequester where we're gutting the military. More and more military
personnel are leaving becoming veterans, and the waiting list grows. They've
given out $140 million of bonuses to Veterans Department employees, including
reducing the waiting lists, without giving veterans care. People died, and
only three people have been fired.

I will make sure that we fire the sheer incompetence inside the Department of
Veterans Affairs and then we'll give veterans a choice card so that they don't
have to travel hours and hours to get care if they want to go to their private
provider. You want to make the Veterans Administration do a better job, give
them — give veterans choices and you'll get a much better result. And as it
relates to all the other organizations, let me give you a good example.

In Houston, Texas, there's an organization in place because someone acted on
their heart, wanted to make sure that there's no homeless veterans in Houston.
And they've come pretty close to that without federal government assistance.
We need to mobilize the entire country to treat our veterans and treat them
with much more respect than they get today.


 No, they shouldn't. And I believe that Puerto Rico ought to have the right of self-determination. If I was a Puerto Rican, I'd vote for statehood so that they have full citizenship. They serve in the military. They would have to pay federal taxes. They would — they would accept the responsibilities of full U.S. citizenship. But they should have the right of determine — self-determination.

Before you get to that, though, Puerto Rico is going to have to deal with the
structural problems they face. You know, it's — it's a fact that if you can
pay for a $79 one-way ticket to Orlando, and you can escape the challenges of
a declining economy and high crime rates, you move to Orlando.

And a lot of people are doing that. And the spiraling out-of- control requires
Puerto Rico to make structural reforms. The federal government can play a role
in allowing them to do that, but they should not — the process of statehood or
the status of Puerto Rico won't be solved until we get to the bigger issue of
how you deal with the structural economic problems they're facing right now.


 Well, I'm kind of confused because he was the sponsor of the Gang of Eight bill that did require a bunch of thresholds but ultimately allowed for citizenship over an extended period of time. I mean, that's a fact. And he asked me to support that. And I — I supported him because I think people, when you're elected, you need to do things.

And he led the charge to finally fix this immigration problem that has existed
now for, as Marco says, for 30 years. And then he cut and run because it
wasn't popular amongst conservatives, I guess.

Here's what I believe. And I wrote a book about this called Immigration Wars.
You can get it at $2.99 on Amazon. It's not a bestseller. I can promise you.


There won't be any — you can get it. It's affordable for everybody. We should
have a path to legal status for the 12 million people that are here illegally.
It means, come out from the shadows, pay a fine, earn legal status by working,
by paying taxes, learning English. Not committing crimes and earn legal status
where you're not cutting in front of the line for people that are patiently
waiting outside.  I think that is the — I think that's the
conservative consensus pragmatic approach to how to solve this problem.


 So did you. 


 Yeah. So did you, Marco. 


 Marco, Marco — he brought up my name. I have supported a consensus approach to solving this problem wherever it came up. and in 2007 it almost passed when my brother was president of the United States. A bipartisan approach got close. Barack Obama actually had the poison pill to stop it then.

And when you led the charge with the Gang of Eight, I supported it because you
asked me to. I think it's important for people in elected office to try to
forge consensus to solve problems. There's never going do be perfect bill.



 But when you didn't do that and you ask people to support, you shouldn't cut and run.


 You should stick with it and that's exactly what happened. He cut and run. And that's a tragedy because now...  ... it's harder and harder to actually solve this problem.


 Can I — can I — I just...


 That beautiful young woman who's an entrepreneur who served in the military, first of all, is deserving of our respect for service in the military and the fact that she's an entrepreneur. 

And we should be a welcoming nation. Our identity is not based on race or
ethnicity, it's based on a set of shared values. That's American citizenship.
And Dulce Candy — a pretty cool name, actually — that is now an entrepreneur
over Youtube is part of that American spirit, and we should celebrate it as
conservatives. That's what we believe in.

You can — you can deal with the threat of terror and also recognize that this
country should be aspirational across the board.


 Well, first of all, I've seen polls where I'm beating Hillary Clinton pretty regularly.

And I believe I can, because I have a proven record, a record of
accomplishment, a record of cutting taxes, of shrinking the government, of
reforming education, of challenging the status quo, eliminating career civil
service protections, shrinking the government workforce by 11 percent, but
leading the nation in job growth. That's the record of accomplishment that
should be taken to Hillary Clinton, who has no record of accomplishment. So
I'm confident if I win this nomination, I will aggressively go against her and
beat her.

As it relates to the super PACs, I have no control over that. And this is
beanbag compared to what the Clinton hit machine is going to do to the
Republican nominee. The simple fact is, we all have a record. It all will be
scrutinized. There's give and take. It's called the politics. And that's the
way it is.

I'm running hard and I believe I'll be the Republican nominee and I'll be the
one best suited to beat Hillary Clinton, who should not be president of the
United States. 


 Well first of all, I think it's important that when we're running for the highest office in the land that we recognize that we're living in dangerous times and we have to be serious about it, that our words have consequences.

Donald Trump, for example — I'm glad — I mentioned his name again just if
anybody was missing him...  ... Mr. Trump believed that in
reaction to people's fears that we should ban all Muslims. Well, that creates
an environment that's toxic in our own country. Nobela is a rising
entrepreneur. She wants to pursue the American dream. She's an American
citizen. She should not feel uncomfortable about her citizenship. She's not
the threat. The threat is Islamic terrorism.

We need to focus our energies there, not these broad, blanket, kind of
statements that will make it harder for us to deal with ISIS. We need to deal
with ISIS in the caliphate. We need a strategy to destroy ISIS there. You
can't do that without the cooperation of the Muslim world because they're as
threatened as we are.

So, I think it's important for us to be careful about the language we use,
which is why I've been critical of Donald Trump. Disparaging women,
disparaging hispanics, that's not a sign of strength. Making fun of disabled
people...  ... We're never going to win elections if we don't
have a more broader unifying message. 


 We desperately need a conservative leader as president of the United States. I have a proven record as governor of the state of Florida, as a conservative leader. And I also have detailed plans to fix the mess in Washington, D.C.

As president I will restore and rebuild our military, restore the alliances
and keep us safe. And as our party's nominee, I will defeat Hillary Clinton in
November. I ask for your support on the caucuses come Monday night and I will
make you proud as our party's nominee. Thank you very much. 


 Chris, why don't you mention my name so I can get into this.


 ... I appreciate that, I really do, thank you.


 Well, first of all he said the exact same thing about me, that I would make a great Vice Presidential nominee when Mitt Romney was considering. I said the same thing about Marco. I think we were both right at the time, and Mitt picked somebody else. So, let's move on to the 2016 race. Who has the leadership skills... ...who has the leadership skills to lead? And, I'm proud of the fact that I have 12 Medal of Honor recipients, over 30 admirals and generals that believe that I would be a steady hand as Commander in Chief. That I serve as Governor of the state of Florida where we cut taxes and reduced government. I took on very powerful interests, forged consensus, fought for my beliefs, implemented them and the state was better off.

We had eight hurricanes and four tropical storms in 16 months. The whole state
was turned upside down. It required a steady hand. Leadership. You learn this,
you learn it by doing it. It's not something that you just go up, and on the
job do it. 

It's not the same. Look, let's be clear. Marco Rubio is a gifted, gifted
politician, and he may have the skills to be a President of the United States,
but we've tried it the old way with Barack Obama, with soaring eloquence and
we got — we didn't get a leader we got someone who wants to divide the country
up. The next President......going to have to forge consensus to
bring about a set of common purposes so that we can move forward again in this
country...


 ... this relates to strategic patience. 


 This relates to the strategic patience of the Obama administration. They come up with these great marketing terms, and what they do is they pull back, and voids are filled, and they're now filled by asymmetric threats of terror, as well as nation-states on the run.

The next president of the United States is gonna have to get the United States
back in the game, and if a preemptive strike is necessary to keep us safe,
then we should do it. 


 Well, first of all, it's interesting that that happened literally days when this hostage release took place in Iran. A day or two days afterwards, North Korea took a — held an American student hostage. I think it's when we send a signal of weakness, when we are negotiating to release people that committed crimes in our country for people that didn't commit crimes that are held hostage in Iran.

We saw the shameful treatment of our sailors, that this creates weakness —
sends a signal of weakness around the world. The next president of the United
States is going to have to get back in the game. Where the United States' word
matters. Where we back up our allies, where we don't send signals of weakness.
We need to use every — every influence possible to get this student back.

And I think John is right about this, there are crippling sanctions that are
available, as it relates to the two or three banks that North Korea uses to —
to — use it — illicit trade. We ought to re-establish sanctions, not just
because of the student, but because of their actions that they're taking right
now, as it relates to building this missile capability.


 Good evening.


 The difference — the difference between eminent domain for public purpose — as Donald said, roads and infrastructure, pipelines and all that — that's for public purpose. But what Donald Trump did was use eminent domain to try to take the property of an elderly woman on the strip in Atlantic City. That is not public purpose, that is down right wrong. 

And here's the problem with that. The problem was, it was to tear down — it
was to tear down — it was to tear down the house...


 And the net result was — you tried.


 And you lost in the court.


 That is not true. And the simple fact is to turn this into a limousine parking lot for his casinos is a not public use. 

And in Florida, based on what we did, we made that impossible. It is part of
our Constitution. That's the better approach. That is the conservative
approach.


 How tough it is to take away property from an elderly woman?


 How tough it is to take away a property from an elderly woman?


 I consider it a public use.


 It's a public use. It's a public use.


 It's a public use. 


 Yeah.


 It's a public use.


 Established by the courts — federal, state courts.


 I would like to see more millionaires. I think we need to grow more millionaires, we need create a prosperity society where people can rise up. 

This notion that somehow we're undertaxed as a nation is just fool hearty,
when we have entitlements growing far faster than our ability to pay for it. A
conservative, because that's the point of this, believes in limited
government, believes in a entrepreneurial capitalism and a strong national
defense.

But it also has to be, we need to reform things. In my town hall meetings, I
went to a place where a woman described her neighbor, who has a better
economic deal by not working than her struggling to make ends meet. We need to
be on the side of working people. And you know, the problem with the left is,
another tax, another regulation, another mandate makes it harder for them to
rise up.

Everything that we should do should be focused on high, sustained economic
growth, where the middle class gets a raise for the first time, and where
people are rewarded for work, rather than non-work. And I know how to do this.
And if people are interested in the specifics of this, they ought to go to
jeb2016.com. 


 Martha — Martha, if I...


 I would. And I would do it in concert, again, with our Arab allies and with Europe, most particularly in this case. This is the lesson learned: in history, if you bomb something and not do anything as it relates to deal with the aftermath of this, if you don't have a stable government, you get what we have in Libya.

And this is not — leading from behind is not an effective policy. We have to
lead. Without the United States, nothing seems to work. Europe doesn't have
the ability to — to — to lead — forward lead in this regard.

And so dealing with the caliphate is important, because it now has spawned
other areas. There have been 70-plus attacks in 17 countries, either inspired
by ISIS or organized by ISIS, Libya being the most important one now.

We have to deal with the caliphate, with building a Sunni army there, but we
also have to deal with it in Libya. And I think the United States, ultimately,
is going to play — play a significant role in this.

The problem with the Obama administration is that they see this incrementally.
They're reluctant. They don't lead. No one knows whether we're serious, and
when we do it, we do it in increments you can barely see. 

The United States has to lead in a much more aggressive way than we're doing
right now. 


 Martha and David, I just...


 Martha and David...


 No, no, I wouldn't. No, I wouldn't. And it was used sparingly, Congress has changed the laws and I — and I think where we stand is the appropriate place. But what we need to do is to make sure that we expand our intelligence capabilities.

The idea that we're going to solve this fight with predator drones, killing
people somehow is a — is more acceptable than capturing them, securing the
information. This is why closing Guantanamo is a complete disaster. What we
need to do is make sure that we are kept safe......by having
intelligence capabilities, both human and technological intelligence
capabilities far superior than what we have today. That's how you get a more
safe place is by making sure that we're fully engaged. And right now, this
administration doesn't do that.


 This is a — this is an important subject. I agree with everything that's been said here about repealing unconstitutional rules and rules that are creating real burdens for investing that creating jobs.

But we also ought to get back to being a Tenth Amendment country, as well, a
country that respects the states to be able to make more decisions. And in the
Bush administration, we would shift transportation dollars back to the states.
I trust Kasich and Christie to build the roads and the infrastructure of their
states than Washington, D.C.

EPA delegated authority, back to the states. Education dollars, back to the
states. I would like to see reform take place all across the country, where
there's more vouchers, more freedom. 

If we did that, we would shrink government's power in Washington, D.C. and we
would have a much more effective government, where people would begin to trust
our government again, because now, no one believes it works.


 You mentioned me. He mentioned me. One other thing that I think we ought to do, along with repealing Obamacare, we need to shift all of this power of healthcare, which is the most egregious form of federal power that is suppressing wages and incomes, and allow governors to have the Medicaid plans so that they can create 21st century Medicaid insurance for people that are stuck in poverty. There's so much that can be done, but I don't trust Washington to do it. I trust the state capitals to be the place — to be the source of innovation and reform in this country. 


 I didn't mention him the second time.


 ... Say it again?


 ... I do, and I do think that we should not impose any kind of political agenda on the military. There should be — if women can meet the requirements, the minimum requirements for combat service they ought to have the right to do it. For sure. It ought to be focused on the morale as well. We got to make sure that we have readiness much higher than we do today. We need to eliminate the sequester which is devastating our military.

We can't be focusing on the political side of this, we need to realize that
our military force is how we project our word in the world. When we're weak
militarily it doesn't matter what we say. We can talk about red lines, and
ISIS being the J.V. team, and reset buttons and all this. If we don't have a
strong military than no one fears us, and they take actions that are against
our national interest.


 ... Why would they worry about it...


 ... Well, the Draft's not going to be reinstituted, but why — if women are accessing...


 No. I didn't say that. You — you asked a question not about the draft, you asked about registering. And if women are going to be...


 If — but...


 ... we don't have a draft. I'm not suggesting we have a draft. What I'm suggesting is that we ought to have readiness being the first priority of our military, and secondly, that we make sure that the morale is high. And right now, neither one of those are acceptable because we've been gutting the military budget.

We also need to reform our procurement process. We need to make sure there are
more men and women in uniform than people — than civilians in our Defense
Department. There's a lot of things that we need to reform to bring our
defense capabilities into the 21st century and I'm the guy that could do that.
That's why I have the support of generals, of admirals, of 12 Medal of Honor
recipients and many other people that know that I would be a steady commander-
in-chief and rebuild our military. 


 I totally agree that we need to give veterans more choices. A veterans card to be able to go to a private provider will enhance the quality of the service inside the Department of Veterans Affairs. We need career civil service reform. Only three people were fired after waiting lists were dropped where veterans didn't get care and people died. It is outrageous. And Hillary Clinton says that that's acceptable? Because she is captive of the public service uniforms.

Career civil service reform would allow the next president to fire people that
are — that are showing sheer incompetence. At a town hall meeting today,
someone came — told a story of their father who looked like he was 85. He had
— he got a bill eight years later from an operation he had, eight years it
took. They couldn't resolve the dispute and then he was told that he died.
Literally, the Veterans Administration sent a death certificate to this guy
and it took nine months to clarify the guy — I met him. He's voting for me.
And he is — likely to be alive.  

This is — this is outrageous. It is completely outrageous. So, giving veterans
more choices, creating centers of excellence, focusing on the true problems
that exist. Dr. Carson is completely right. We need to start focusing on this
earlier, before they become veterans so that there's a customized plan so
people don't fall through the cracks. We can do this, but it's going to
require someone who has proven leadership skills to make it happen.



 Look, I'm pro-life. In fact, on this stage, I'm the most pro-life person because I've acted on it for eight years as governor of the state of Florida. 

Where we abolished partial-birth abortion, where parents have the right to be
notified when their teenage child is having an abortion. We were the first
state to do a choose life license plate to raise money for adoption. We were
the first state to have state monies go to crisis pregnancy centers, which
recently was just increased to $4 million a year.

We created greater regulation on abortion clinics, where there were horrific
procedures. So I'm pro life, but I believe there should be exceptions: rape,
incest and when the life of the mother is in danger. And so, that belief, and
my consistency on this, makes me, I think, poised to be in the right place,
the sweet spot for a Republican nominee. And others may have a different view
and I respect it.  
 But I think we have to be cognizant
of the fact there's a lot of people that are concerned about having a pro-life
position without any exceptions. 


 Peyton Manning is supporting me. And I'm for Denver. 


 I want to thank the people of New Hampshire, and I want to celebrate the birthday of a great president, Ronald Reagan would have been 105 today. 

President Reagan believed in the future of our country, believed in its
greatness, had a hopeful, optimistic message. Drew people towards our cause.
We need someone who has a proven record to take our case to the American
people because our philosophy is by far the best one. Limited government,
entrepreneurial capitalism, of peace through strength. I believe I have the
skills to take our party to victory in November.

I ask for your support on Tuesday to keep America, and make America a safer,
stronger, and freer. Thank you all very much. 


 Right.


 Not on specific issues, not at all. I think the next president — if I'm president, I will appoint people — I'll nominate people that have a proven record in the judiciary.

The problem in the past has been we have appointed people thinking you can get
it through the Senate because they didn't have a record. And the problem is
that sometimes we're surprised.

The simple fact is the next president needs to appoint someone with a proven
conservative record, similar to Justice Scalia, that is a lover of liberty,
that believes in limited government, that consistently applied that kind of
philosophy, that didn't try to legislator from the bench, that was respectful
of the Constitution.

And then fight and fight, and fight for that nomination to make sure that that
nomination passes.

Of course, the president, by the way, has every right to nominate Supreme
Court justices. I'm an Article II guy in the Constitution. We're running for
the president of the United States. We want a strong executive for sure. But
in return for that, there should be a consensus orientation on that
nomination, and there's no doubt in my mind that Barack Obama will not have a
consensus pick when he submits that person to the Senate.


 Yes.


 No, it doesn't, and that's the problem. The lack of leadership in this country by Barack Obama, John Kerry, Hillary Clinton, thinking that this is a policy that works, this policy of containment with ISIS. It's a complete, unmitigated disaster. And to allow Russia now to have influence in Syria makes it harder, but we need to destroy ISIS and dispose of Assad to create a stable Syria so that the four million refugees aren't a breeding ground for Islamic jihadists.

This is the problem. Donald Trump brought up the fact that he would — he'd
want to accommodate Russia. Russia is not taking out ISIS. They're — they're
attacking our — our — our team, the team that we've been training and the team
that we've been supporting. It is absolutely ludicrous to suggest that Russia
could be a positive partner in this. They are on the run. They are making —
every time we step back, they're on the run. The question that you asked was a
really good one about what you would do — what three things would you do.

I would restore the military, the sequester needs to be reversed. I would have
a strategy to destroy ISIS, and I would immediately create a policy of
containment as it relates to Iran's ambitions, and to make it make clear that
we are not going to allow for Iran to do what it's doing, which is to move
towards a nuclear weapon.

Those three things would be the first and foremost things that we need to
do...... in 2017.


 The very basic fact is that Vladimir Putin is not going to be an ally of the United States. The whole world knows this. It's a simple, basic fact. 

They're not taking out — they're not even attempting to take out ISIS. They're
attacking the troops that we're supporting. We need to create a coalition,
Sunni-led coalition on the ground with our special operators to destroy ISIS
and bring about stability. And you can't do that with Assad in power. He
has...


 ... Let me finish...


 ... This is ridiculous...


 ... This is coming from a guy who gets his foreign policy from the shows.


 ... This is a guy who thinks that Hillary Clinton is a great negotiator in Iran...


 ... This is a man who insults his way to the nomination...


 I think it's my turn, isn't it?


 I've got about five or six...


 Do I get to do it five or six times or just once, responding to that?


 So here's the deal. I'm sick and tired of Barack Obama blaming my brother for all of the problems that he has had.  

And, frankly, I could care less about the insults that Donald Trump gives to
me. It's blood sport for him. He enjoys it. And I'm glad he's happy about it.
But I am sick and tired...


 I am sick and tired of him going after my family. My dad is the greatest man alive in my mind.  

And while Donald Trump was building a reality TV show, my brother was building
a security apparatus to keep us safe. And I'm proud of what he did.


And he has had the gall to go after my brother.


 He has had the gall to go after my mother.

Hold on. Let me finish. He has had the gall to go after my mother.


 Look, I won the lottery when I was born 63 years ago, looked up, and I saw my mom. My mom is the strongest woman I know.


 This is not about my family or his family. This is about the South Carolina families that need someone to be a commander in chief that can lead. I'm that person.


 Can I just...


 I'm not going to invite Donald Trump to the rally in Charleston on Monday afternoon when my brother is coming to speak.


 I'm rescinding the invitation. I thought you might want to come, but I guess not.


 I'd like — can I — can I...


 Look, I admire the fact that Governor Kasich is supporting spending more money on drug treatment and mental health. I think that's a high priority all across this country, but expanding Obamacare is what we're talking about, and Obamacare's expansion, even though the federal government is paying for the great majority of it, is creating further debt on the backs of our children and grandchildren. We should be fighting Obamacare, repealing Obamacare, replacing it with something totally different. 

When I was — as a private citizen, Florida was confronted with the choice. The
governor was supportive of doing what John did. So was the Florida Senate. A
committed speaker of the House asked me to go as a private citizen to make the
case against the expansion.

I did, and it wasn't expanded there, just as it wasn't expanded in South
Carolina under Governor Haley.




 South Carolina — South Carolinians need to know this, because the Cato Institute, which grades governors based on their spending, rank him right at the bottom.


 And Governor Haley is ranked at the top.




 No. He mentioned my name.


 Let me finish, though. No, no, no — hey, wait, wait, wait. Just hold, Major, hold, Major. Hold on, Major.




 South Carolinians want to make that, they elect the most conservative governor or candidate that can win.


 Of course not. It won't have an impact on hedge funds managers paying ordinary income. In fact, it's not just hedge fund people, but people that are doing — they're in the business of investing other people's money, getting capital gains treatment is not appropriate.

They should be paying ordinary income. That's their business. They're grateful
to be able to make a lot of money, I'm sure. And what we do is lower the
rates. It's not the end of the world that private equity people and hedge fund
folks that are, right now, getting capital gains treatment for the income they
earn, pay ordinary income like everybody else in this room. That's not a
problem at all. What we need to do is reform the tax code to simplify the
rates, to shift power away from Washington, D.C. That's what I did as governor
of the state of Florida, $19 billion dollars of tax cuts, and it stimulated
seven out of the eight years. Florida led the nation in job growth.



 Thank you.


 Great question. I feel like I have to get into my inner Chris Christie, and point out that the reason why I should be president is listening to two senators talk about arcane amendments to bills that didn't pass. 

This is — this is the problem. We need a leader to fix this problem. And I
have a detailed plan to do just that, including controlling the border,
dealing with the visa over-stayers, making sure that we have a path to legal
status, not to citizenship, for those that come out from the shadows and pay a
fine, learn English, don't commit crimes, work and pay taxes.

That is the better approach.


 The great majority of people that come to this country come because they have no other choice. They want to come to provide for their families. That doesn't mean it's right. That doesn't mean it's right.

We should pick who comes to our country. We should control our border. Coming
here legally should be a lot easier than coming here illegally. But the
motivation, they're not all rapists, as you-know-who said. They're not that.

These are people that are coming to provide for their families. And we should
show a little more respect for the fact that they're struggling. It doesn't
mean we shouldn't be controlling the border. That's exactly what we should be
doing.


 ... So, you know......This is the standard operating procedure, to disparage me. That's fine...


 ... But, if you want to talk about weakness, you want to talk about weakness? It's weak to disparage women. 


 It's weak to denigrate the disabled. And,it's really weak to call John McCain a loser because he was a...


 ... That is outrageous. The guy's an American hero. 


 ... The simple fact is I've also laid out my plans on  immigration...


  Just, for the record  make sure my mother's listening, if she's watching the debate. I didn't say that I was going to moon somebody...


 So, there — so, there is all sorts of intrigue about where I disagree with my brother, there would be one right there. You should not use eminent domain for private purposes.

A baseball stadium or a parking lot for a limo... 


 It's very different. Transmission lines, pipe lines, bridges and highways. All of that is proper use of imminent domain. Not to take an elderly woman's home to build a parking lot so that high-rollers can come from New York City to build casinos in Atlantic City.


 My name was mentioned twice.


 He called me a liar.


 Also, he talked about one of my heroes, Ronald Reagan.

Ronald Reagan was a liberal maybe in the 1950s. He was a conservative reformed
governor for eight years before he became president, and no one should suggest
he made an evolution for political purposes. He was a conservative, and he
didn't tear down people like Donald Trump is. He tore down the Berlin Wall.


 He was a great guy. 


 That was me.


 Yeah, well, I have got to respond to this.


 Sounds like a good plan.


 Or you could ask me two questions, so I could get two minutes instead of one.


 I think the dysfunction in Washington is really dangerous, that's what I think. And we need a proven leader that has a record of solving problems, someone who doesn't cut and run; someone who could be a commander in chief to unite our country around common purposes; someone who doesn't disparage people.

Someone that doesn't brag, for example, that he has been bankrupt four times
and it was great, because he could use the legal system.

Someone...


 We need someone with a proven record to be able to forge consensus to solve problems.

And right now, both Republicans and Democrats in Washington don't get it.
People are struggling — 63 percent of Americans can't make a $500 car payment.
Most Americans are living paycheck to paycheck. And we need someone has a
proven record of growing the economy, reforming the things that are broken.

And I'm that person.


 Yeah...


 Yeah.


 Here we go.


 Here's the record. Here's the record. We led the nation in job growth seven out of eight years. When I left there was $9 billion of reserves, 35 percent of general revenue. No state came close to that.


 When I — during my time, we were one of the two states to go to AAA bond rating. We didn't go bankrupt like Trump did and call it success when people are laid off, when vendors don't get paid. That's not success.

What we did was create an environment where people had a chance to have
income. Personal income during my time went up by 4.4 percent.


 The government grew by...


 ... half of that.


 Thank you all very much. The next president is going to be confronted with an unforeseen challenge. That's almost certain. It could be a pandemic, a major natural disaster or an attack on our country. The question for South Carolinians and Americans is who do you want to have sitting behind the big desk in the Oval Office? Because that's the question. It's not the things we're talking about today. It's the great challenge that may happen. I believe I will have a steady hand as commander in chief and president of the United States. I will unite this country around common purposes because I did it as governor of the state of Florida.

When I was governor, we had eight hurricanes and four tropical storms in 16
months. Our state was on its back. We recovered far faster than what people
thought because we led.

We want to challenge rather than cutting and running. That's what we need in
Washington, D.C. We need someone with a servant's heart that has a backbone,
that isn't going to focus on polls and focus groups. The focus will be on the
American people to keep them safe and secure.

I ask for your vote next Saturday. 


