 Thank you. 

You know, people are disgusted with the way that money has corrupted our
political process, intimidating incumbents and empowering Wall Street every
day, the turnstile government that we see, and also the power of the financial
sector in both parties.

They're looking for a leader who understands how the system works, who has not
been coopted by it, and also has a proven record of accomplishing different
things. I have a record of working across the political aisle. I've also spent
more than half of my professional life away from politics in the independent
world of being an author, a journalist, and a sole proprietor.

In government service, I've fought and bled for our country in Vietnam as a
Marine. I spent years as Assistant Secretary of Defense, Secretary of the Navy
— in the Reagan administration.

In the senate, I spoke about economic fairness and social justice from day
one. I also wrote and passed the best piece of veterans education legislation
in history, the Post 9/11 G.I. Bill. I brought criminal justice reform out of
the political shadows and into the national discussion. I led what later
became called the Strategic Pivot to Asia two years before President Obama was
elected.

I know where my loyalties are.

My mother grew up in the poverty of east Arkansas chopping cotton, picking
strawberries. Three of her seven siblings died in childhood. My wife, Hong,
came to this country as a refugee from war torn Vietnam — learned English, a
language that was not spoken at home, and earned her way into Cornell Law
School. I have five daughters. Amy works with disabled veterans, Sarah is an
emergency room nurse, Julia is a massage therapist, Emily and Georgia are
still in school. My son Jim fought as an infantry Marine on the bloody streets
of Ramadi.

You may be sure that in a Webb administration, the highest priority will be
the working people who every day go out and make this country stronger at
home, and who give us the right reputation and security overseas under a
common sense foreign policy. 


 No, actually I believe that I am where the Democratic Party traditionally has been. The Democratic Party, and the reason I've decided to run as a Democrat, has been the party that gives people who otherwise have no voice in the corridors of power a voice. And that is not determined by race. 

And as a clarification, I have always supported affirmative action for African
Americans. That's the way the program was originally designed because of their
unique history in this country, with slavery and the Jim Crow laws that
followed. What I have discussed a number of times is the idea that when we
create diversity programs that include everyone, quote, "of color," other than
whites, struggling whites like the families in the Appalachian mountains,
we're not being true to the Democratic Party principle of elevating the level
of consciousness among our people about the hardships that a lot of people who
happen to be have — by culture, by the way.


 Look, there are two fundamental issues that are involved in this discussion. We need to pay respect to both of them. The first is the issue of who should be kept from having guns and using firearms. And we have done not a good job on that. 

A lot of them are criminals. And a lot of the people are getting killed are
members of gangs inside our urban areas. And a lot of them are mentally
incapacitated. And the shooting in Virginia Tech in '07, this individual had
received medical care for mental illness from three different professionals
who were not allowed to share the information.

So we do need background checks. We need to keep the people who should not
have guns away from them. But we have to respect the tradition in this country
of people who want to defend themselves and their family from violence.


 May I? People are going back and forth here for 10 minutes here. There are people at high levels in this government who have bodyguards 24 hours a day, seven days a week. The average American does not have that, and deserves the right to be able to protect their family. 


 Anderson, can I come into this discussion at some point? 


 Thank you. I've been standing over here for about ten minutes, trying. 


 It's just — it's gone back and forth over there. 


 You got the lucky . 


 Look, let's start — I've been trying to get in this conversation for about 10 minutes — let's start with why Russia is in Syria right now. There are three strategic failings that have allowed this to occur. The first was the invasion of Iraq, which destabilized ethnic elements in Iraq and empowered Iran. The second was the Arab Spring, which created huge vacuums in Libya and in Syria that allowed terrorist movements to move in there. And the third was the recent deal allowing Iran to move forward and eventually acquire a nuclear weapon, which sent bad signals, bad body language into the region about whether we are acquiescing in Iran becoming a stronger piece of the formula in that part of the world. 

Now, I say this as someone who spent five years in the Pentagon and who
opposed the war in Iraq, whose son fought in Iraq, I've fought in Vietnam. But
if you want a place where we need to be in terms of our national strategy, a
focus, the greatest strategic threat that we have right now is resolving our
relationship with China. And we need to do this because of their aggression in
the region. We need to do it because of the way they treat their own people.


 And I would say this. I've been waiting for 10 minutes. I will say this. 


 I will — well, you've let a lot of people go over their time. I would say this... 


 ... to the unelected, authoritarian government of China: You do not own the South China Sea. You do not have the right to conduct cyber warfare against tens of millions of American citizens. And in a Webb administration, we will do something about that. 


 Can I... 




 Thank you. 




 This is not about Benghazi per se. To me it is the inevitability of something like Benghazi occurring in the way that we intervened in Libya. We had no treaties at risk. We had no Americans at risk. There was no threat of attack or imminent attack. 

There is plenty of time for a president to come to the Congress and request
authority to use military force in that situation. I called for it on the
Senate floor again and again. I called for it in Senate hearings.

It is not a wise thing to do. And if people think it was a wise thing to do,
try to get to the Tripoli airport today. You can't do it.


 Everybody makes their decisions when the time there is conscription. And as long as they go through the legal process that our country requires, I respect that. And it would be for the voters to decide whether Senator Sanders or anyone else should be president. 

I will say this, coming from the position that I've come from, from a military
family, with my brother a marine, my son was a marine in Iraq, I served as a
marine, spending five years in the Pentagon, I am comfortable that I am the
most qualified person standing up here today to be your commander-in-chief.


 I believe that the signal that we sent to the region when the Iran nuclear deal was concluded was that we are accepting Iran's greater position on this very important balance of power, among our greatest ally Israel, and the Sunnis represented by the Saudi regime, and Iran. It was a position of weakness and I think it encouraged the acts that we've seen in the past several weeks. 


 Our greatest long-term strategic challenge is our relation with China. Our greatest day-to-day threat is cyber warfare against this country. Our greatest military-operational threat is resolving the situations in the Middle East. 


 I hope I can get that kind of time here. As a President of the United States, every life in this country matters. At the same time, I believe I can say to you, I have had a long history of working with the situation of African Americans. 

We're talking about criminal justice reform, I risked my political life
raising the issue of criminal justice reform when I ran for the Senate in
Virginia in 2006. I had democratic party political consultants telling me I
was committing political suicide.

We led that issue in the congress. We started a national debate on it. And it
wasn't until then that the Republican Party started joining in.

I also represented a so-called war criminal, an African American Marine who
was wounded — who was convicted of murder in Vietnam, for six years. He took
his life three years into this. I cleared his name after — after three years.


 And I put the African American soldier on the Mall. I made that recommendation and fought for it. So, if you want someone who is — can stand up in front of you right now and say I have done the hard job, I have taken the risks, I am your person. 


 Bernie, say my name so I can get into this. 


 OK. Thank you.  


 Anderson, I need to jump in (inaudible). 


 There is a reality that I think we all need to recognize with respect to the power of the financial sector. 

And let me just go back a minute and say that on this TARP program, I
introduced a piece of legislation calling for a windfall profits tax on the
executives of any of these companies that got more than $5 billion, that it
was time for them, once they got their compensation and their bonus, to split
the rest of the money they made with the nurses and the truck drivers and the
soldiers who bailed them out. With respect to the financial sector, I mean, I
know that my time has run out but in speaking of changing positions and the
position on how this debate has occurred is kind of frustrating because unless
somebody mentions my name I can't get into the discussion.


 All right. Well, I'm trying to set a mark here so maybe we can get into a little more later on. This hasn't been equal time. 

But if you want to look at what has happened, if we look at the facts in terms
of how we're going to deal with this, since that crash, in the last 10 years,
the amount of the world's capital economy that Wall Street manages has gone
from 44 percent to 55 percent.

That means the Wall Street money managers are not risking themselves as the
same way the American people are when they're going to get their compensation.
They're managing money from all over the world.

We have to take that into consideration when we're looking at ways to regulate
it.


 I wouldn't have a problem with that. Let me start by saying my wife is an immigrant. She was a refugee, her family escaped from Vietnam on a boat-- her entire extended family, after the communists took over, when hundreds of thousands of people were out there and thousands of them were dying. Went to two refugee camps, she never spoke English in her home, and she ended, as I said, graduating from Cornell Law School. That's not only American dream, that's a value that we have with a good immigration system in place. No country has — is a country without defining its borders. We need to resolve this issue. I actually introduced an amendment in the 2007 immigration bill... 


 ...Giving a pathway to citizenship to those people who had come here, and put down their roots, and met as a series of standards... 


 ...lost (ph) — I introduced that in 2007 — We need a comprehensive reform, and we need to be able to define our borders. 


 I — well, I — I would leave his ultimate judgment to the legal system. Here's what I do believe. We have a serious problem in terms of the collection of personal information in this country. And one of the things that I did during the FISA bill in 2007, the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, was introduce with Russ Feingold two amendments basically saying, "We understand the realities of how you have to collect this broad information in the Internet age, but after a certain period of time, you need to destroy the personal information that you have if people have not been brought — if criminal justice proceedings have not been brought against them." 

We've got a vast data bank of information that is ripe for people with bad
intentions to be able to use. And they need to be destroyed.


 I got a great deal of admiration and affection for Senator Sanders, but I — Bernie, I don't think the revolution's going to come. And I don't think the Congress is going to pay for a lot of this stuff. And if there would be a major difference between my administration and the Obama administration, it would be in the use of executive authority. 

I came up as a committee counsel in the Congress, used to put dozens of bills
through the House floor every year as a committee counsel on the Veterans
Committee. I have a very strong feeling about how our federal system works and
how we need to lead and energize the congressional process instead of allowing
these divisions to continue to paralyze what we're doing. So I would lead —
working with both parties in the Congress and working through them in the
traditional way that our Constitution sets (ph).


 Well, the — the question really is how are we going to solve energy problems here and in the global environment if you really want to address climate change? 

And when I was in the Senate, I was an all-of-the-above energy voter. We
introduced legislation to bring in alternate energy as well as nuclear power.
I'm a strong proponent of nuclear power. It is safe, it is clean. And really,
we are not going to solve climate change simply with the laws here.

We've done a good job in this country since 1970. If you look at China and
India, they're the greatest polluters in the world. Fifteen out of the 20 most
polluted cities in the world are in one of those two countries. We need to
solve this in a global way. It's a global problem and I have been very strong
on — on doing that. The — the agreements — the so-called agreements that we
have had with China are illusory in terms of the immediate requirements of the
— of the Chinese government itself.

So let's solve this problem in an international way, and then we really will
have a — a way to address climate change.


 I'd have to say the enemy soldier that threw the grenade that wounded me, but he's not around right now to talk to. 


 Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, it's been a pleasure to be with you tonight. You've heard a lot of promises up here; you've heard a lot of rhetoric. They all seem to happen during campaigns, and then once the election's over, people start from scratch again and try to get things done. 

One of the things I can promise you, if you look at my record, in and out of
government, is that I've always been willing to take on a complicated,
something unpopular issues, and work them through, the complex issues, and
work them through in order to have the solution.

We did it with criminal justice reform. We've had a lot of discussion here
about criminal justice reform. We did it in other ways. We need a national
political strategy for our economy, for our social policy, for social justice,
and, by the way, for how you run and manage the most complex bureaucracy in
the world, which is the federal government.

I know how to lead. I did it in Vietnam, I did it in the Pentagon, I did it in
the Senate, and if you will help me overcome this cavalcade of — of financial
irregularities and money that is poisoning our political process, I am ready
to do that for you in the White House.


