 This is what's wrong! 


 I mean, this is what's wrong. He buys and sells politicians of all stripes, he's already... 


 Hey, look, look! He's already hedging his bet on the Clintons, OK? So if he doesn't run as a Republican, maybe he supports Clinton, or maybe he runs as an independent... 


 ...but I'd say that he's already hedging his bets because he's used to buying politicians. 


 First of all, only ISIS is responsible for the terrorism. Only ISIS is responsible for the depravity. But, we do have to examine, how are we going to defeat ISIS? 

I've got a proposal. I'm the leading voice in America for not arming the
allies of ISIS.  
 Megyn, may I respond?  May I respond? 


 I want to collect more records from terrorists, but less records from innocent Americans. The Fourth Amendment was what we fought the Revolution over! John Adams said it was the spark that led to our war for independence, and I'm proud of standing for the Bill of Rights, and I will continue to stand for the Bill of Rights.  


 Use the Fourth Amendment! 


 Use the Fourth Amendment! 


 Get a warrant! 


 Get a judge to sign the warrant! 


 See, here's the problem. 


 Here's the problem, governor. Here's the problem, governor. You fundamentally misunderstand the Bill of Rights. 

Every time you did a case, you got a warrant from a judge. I'm talking about
searches without warrants...


 ...indiscriminately, of all Americans' records, and that's what I fought to end. 

I don't trust President Obama with our records. I know you gave him a big hug,
and if you want to give him a big hug again, go right ahead. 


 I've got a news flash... 


 News flash, the Republican Party's been fighting against a single-payer system... 


 \-- for a decade. So I think you're on the wrong side of this if you're still arguing for a single-payer system. 


 I oppose the Iranian deal, and will vote against it. I don't think that the president negotiated from a position of strength, but I don't immediately discount negotiations. 

I'm a Reagan conservative. Reagan did negotiate with the Soviets. But you have
to negotiate from a position of strength, and I think President Obama gave
away too much, too early.

If there's going to be a negotiation, you're going to have to believe somehow
that the Iranians are going to comply. And I asked this question to John
Kerry, I said "do you believe they're trustworthy?" and he said "No."

And I said, "well, how are we gonna get them to comply?" I would have never
released the sanctions before there was consistent evidence of compliance.


 Look, I don't want my marriage or my guns registered in Washington. And if people have an opinion, it's a religious opinion that is heartly felt, obviously they should be allowed to practice that and no government should interfere with them. One of the things, one of the things that really got to me was the thing in Houston where you had the government, the mayor actually, trying to get the sermons of ministers. When the government tries to invade the church to enforce its own opinion on marriage, that's when it's time to resist. 


 Well, let's be clear, I'm the only one on the stage who actually has a five-year budget that balances. I've put pencil to paper... 


 ... and I've said -- and I've said I would cut spending, and I've said exactly where. Each one of my budgets has taken a meat axe to foreign aid, because I think we ought to quit sending it to countries that hate us.  

I think we ought to quit sending it to countries that burn our flag. Israel is
not one of those. But even Benjamin Netanyahu said that ultimately, they will
be stronger when they're independent. My position is exactly the same.

We shouldn't borrow money from China to send it anywhere, but why don't we
start with eliminating aid to our enemies.


 I still say exactly what my original opinion is. Do you borrow money from China to send it to anyone? Out of your surplus, you can help your allies, and Israel is a great ally. And this is no particular animus of Israel, but what I will say, and I will say over and over again, we cannot give away money we don't have. 

We do not project power from bankruptcy court. We're borrowing a million
dollars a minute. 

It's got to stop somewhere.


 I'm a different kind of Republican. I've introduced a five-year balanced budget. I've introduced the largest tax cut in our history. I stood for ten and a half hours on the Senate floor to defend your right to be left alone.  

But I've also gone to Chicago. I've gone to Detroit. I've been to Ferguson,
I've been to Baltimore, because I want our party to be bigger, better and
bolder, and I'm the only one that leads Hillary Clinton in five states that
were won by President Obama. I'm a different kind of Republican. 


 Good evening, everyone. I'm an eye surgeon from Bowling Green, Kentucky. My wife, Kelly, and I have been married for nearly 25 years, and I spend my days defending the Constitution and the Bill of Rights. 

I think there's nothing more important than understanding that the
Constitution restrains government, not the people.

Thank you. 


 I kind of have to laugh when I think of, "Mmm, sounds like a non sequitur." He was asked whether or not he would be capable and it would be in good hands to be in charge of the nuclear weapons, and all of a sudden, there's a sideways attack at me. 

I think that really goes to really the judgment. Do we want someone with that
kind of character, that kind of careless language to be negotiating with
Putin? Do we want someone like that to be negotiating with Iran?

I think really there's a sophomoric quality that is entertaining about Mr.
Trump, but I am worried. I'm very concerned about him — having him in charge
of the nuclear weapons, because I think his response, his — his visceral
response to attack people on their appearance — short, tall, fat, ugly — my
goodness, that happened in junior high. Are we not way above that? Would we
not all be worried to have someone like that in charge of the nuclear arsenal?


 I think this goes back to essentially what we've been saying for the last two or three questions. Carly Fiorina also said we're not going to talk with Putin. Well, think if Reagan had said that during the Cold War? We continued to talk with the Russians throughout the Cold War which is much more significant that where we are now. 

Should we continue to talk with Iran? Yes. Should we cut up the agreement
immediately? That's absurd. Wouldn't you want to know if they complied? Now,
I'm going to vote against the agreement because I don't think there's
significant leverage, but it doesn't mean that I would immediately not look at
the agreement, and cut it up without looking to see if whether or not Iran has
complied.

The same goes with China. I don't think we need to be rash, I don't think we
need to be reckless, and I think need to leave lines of communication open.
Often we talk about whether we should be engaged in the world, or disengaged
in the world, and I think this is an example of some who want to isolate us,
actually, and not be engaged.

We do need to be engaged with Russia. It doesn't mean we give them a free
pass, or China a free pass, but, to be engaged, to continue to talk. We did
throughout the Cold War, and it would be a big mistake not to do it here.


 I think this gets to the point of wisdom on when to intervene and when we shouldn't. Had we bombed Assad at the time, like President Obama wanted, and like Hillary Clinton wanted and many Republicans wanted, I think ISIS would be in Damascus today. I think ISIS would be in charge of Syria had we bombed Assad. 

Sometimes both sides of the civil war are evil, and sometimes intervention
sometimes makes us less safe. This is real the debate we have to have in the
Middle East.

Every time we have toppled a secular dictator, we have gotten chaos, the rise
of radical Islam, and we're more at risk. So, I think we need to think before
we act, and know most interventions, if not a lot of them in the Middle East,
have actually backfired on us.


 Well, I hate to say it, but Donald Trump has a bit of a point here. 

The case that was decided around 1900 was, people had a green card, were here
legally, and they said that their children were citizens. There's never been a
direct Supreme Court case on people who were here illegally, whether or not
their kids are citizens.

So it hasn't really been completely adjudicated. The 14th Amendment says that
"those who are here and under the jurisdiction." The original author of the —
of the 14th Amendment said on the Senate floor that this was applying to
slaves, and did not specifically apply to others.


 Well, I'm glad we're having a discussion about taxes because everybody laments that we lose jobs overseas, we have. Our companies, and our jobs are being chased overseas by a 70,000 page tax code, so, that's why I've chosen to get rid of the whole thing, and have one single rate, 14 and a-half percent for everybody, business, and for corporate income, and personal income. But, we also get rid of the payroll tax, so the working class would get a tax break as well. 

So, I think a flat tax, eliminating the tax code, getting rid of all the
loopholes, is the way to go, and it's the way we get America going again.


 Hugh, can I — can I make a response to that? 


 Can I make a response to that? 


 May I make a response to that? 


 He's referred to me. 


 He's referred to me... 


 ... in his remarks. May I make a response? 


 Absolutely. Go ahead. 


 May I respond? 


 The remark was made that there hadn't been anyone else on the podium opposed to the Iraq War. I've made my career as being an opponent of the Iraq War. I was opposed to the Syria war. I was opposed to arming people who are our enemies. 

Iran is now stronger because Hussein is gone. Hussein was the great bulwark
and counterbalance to the Iranians. So when we complain about the Iranians,
you need to remember that the Iraq War made it worse.

Originally, Governor Bush was asked, was the Iraq War a mistake, and he said,
"No. We'd do it again."

We have to learn sometimes the interventions backfire. The Iraq War backfired
and did not help us. We're still paying the repercussions of a bad decision.


 We have make the decision now in Syria, should we topple Assad? Many up here wanted to topple Assad, and it's like — I said no, because if you do... 


 ... ISIS will now be in charge of Syria... 


 If you want boots on the ground, and you want them to be our sons and daughters, you got 14 other choices. There will always be a Bush or Clinton for you, if you want to go back to war in Iraq. 

But the thing is, the first war was a mistake. And I'm not sending our sons
and our daughters back to Iraq. The war didn't work. We can amplify those who
live there.

The Kurds deserve to be armed and I'll arm them. We can use our Air Force to
amplify the forces there. But the boots on the ground need to be the people
who live there.

My goodness, I'm still upset with the Saudi Arabians for everything they do
over there. They've funded the arms that went to the jihadists. They're not
accepting any of the people, any of the migrants that have been — the refugees
that are being pushed out of Syria. Saudi Arabia is not accepting one.

Why are we always the world's patsies that we have to go over there and fight
their wars for them? They need to fight their wars, we need to defend American
interests, but it is not in America's national security interests to have
another war in Iraq.


 I think one of the great problems, and what American people don't like about politics, is hypocrisy. People have one standard for others and not for them — for themselves. 

There is at least one prominent example on the stage of someone who says they
smoked pot in high school, and yet the people going to — to jail for this are
poor people, often African-Americans and often Hispanics, and yet the rich
kids who use drugs aren't.

I personally think that this is a crime for which the only victim is the
individual, and I think that America has to take a different attitude. I would
like to see more rehabilitation and less incarceration. I'm a fan of the drug
courts which try to direct you back towards work and less time in jail.

But the bottom line is the states. We say we like the 10th Amendment, until we
start talking about this. And I think the federal government has gone too far,
I think that the war on drugs has had a racial outcome, and really has been
something that has really damaged our inner cities.

Not only do the drugs damage them, we damage them again by incarcerating them
and then preventing them from getting employment over time.

So I don't think that the federal government should override the states. I
believe in the 10th Amendment and I really will say that the states are left
to themselves. 


 Well, I think if we left it open, we could see how many people smoked pot in high school.  


 Well, you know, the thing is that... 


 Yeah, I was talking about  — well, let me... 


 But let me respond. The thing is, is that in Florida, Governor Bush campaigned against medical marijuana. That means that a small child like Morgan Hintz (ph) that has seizures is day, is failing on non-traditional medications, is not allowed to use cannabis oil. 

And if they do that in Florida, they will take the child away, they will put
the parents in jail. And that's what that means if you're against allowing
people use medical marijuana, you'll actually put them in jail.


 And actually, under the current circumstances, kids who had privilege like you do, don't go to jail, but the poor kids in our inner cities go to jail. I don't think that's fair. And I think we need to acknowledge it, and it is hypocritical to still want to put poor people in jail... 


 Well, you vote — you oppose medical marijuana... 


 But that means you'll put people in jail. 




 May I respond? 


 Understand what they're saying. if they're going to say we are going to enforce the federal law against what the state law is, they aren't really believing in the Tenth Amendment. 

Governor Christie would go into Colorado, and if you're breaking any federal
law on marijuana, even though the state law allows it, he would put you in
jail. If a young mother is trying to give her child cannabis oil for medical
marijuana for seizure treatment, he would put her in jail, if it violates
federal law.

I would let Colorado do what the Tenth Amendment says. This power — we were
never intended to have crime dealing at the federal level. Crime was supposed
to be left to the states. Colorado has made their decision. And I don't want
the federal government interfering and putting moms in jail, who are trying to
get medicine for their kid...


 May I respond? May I respond? 


 Here is the thing, he doesn't want to make it about medical marijuana, but what if New Jersey's medical marijuana contradicts the federal law? He's saying he'll send the federal government in, and he will enforce the federal law. That's not consistent with the Tenth Amendment. It is not consistent with states' rights. And it is not consistent with the conservative vision for the country. 

I don't think we should be sending the federal police in to arrest a mother
and separate them from their child for giving a medicine to their child for
seizures.




 If you want a skeptic — if you want a skeptic, Jake, I will happily jump into that briar patch. If you want a real... 


 A second opinion?  

One of the greatest — one of the greatest medical discoveries of all times was
— were the vaccines, particularly for smallpox. And if you want to read a
story, it's called The Speckled Monster, it's an amazing story, it was all
done voluntary.

But people came in by the droves. George Washington wouldn't let his wife
visit until she got vaccinated. So I'm all for vaccines. But I'm also for
freedom.

I'm also a little concerned about how they're bunched up. My kids had all of
their vaccines, and even if the science doesn't say bunching them up is a
problem, I ought to have the right to spread out my vaccines out a little bit
at the very least.


 Ooh, that's a tough one. You know, I'm big on — that we were — and I love what Carly said about women's suffrage. I think Susan B. Anthony might be a good choice. 


 Justice Never Sleeps.  


 I met Ronald Reagan as a teenager, and my family, we're big supporters of him when he ran against Gerald Ford. It was a big deal because he was the grassroots, running against the establishment, and I'll never forget that. And, how he stood up and said, you know what, this is something new that our country needs, and our party needs. 

If I were president, I would try to be one who says, you know what, I'm a
Reagan Conservative. I'm someone who believes in peace through strength, and I
would try to lead the country in that way knowing that our goal is peace, and
that war is the last resort, not the first resort. And, that when we go to
war, we go to war in a constitutional way, which means that we have to vote on
it, that war is initiated by congress, not by the president, that we go to war
electively (ph). That when we go to war, we don't fight with one arm tied
behind our back, we fight all out to win, but then we come home. 


 You know, I left my medical practice and ran for office because I was concerned about an $18 trillion debt. We borrow a million dollars a minute. Now, on the floor of the Congress, the Washington establishment from both parties puts forward a bill that will explode the deficit. It allows President Obama to borrow unlimited amounts of money.

I will stand firm. I will spend every ounce of energy to stop it. I will begin
tomorrow to filibuster it. And I ask everyone in America to call Congress
tomorrow and say enough is enough; no more debt.


 No, I oppose it because you're taking money from the entitlement and then spending it immediately on other items. That's what they're doing. They're taking money from Social Security and they're going to spend it on the military and they're going to spend it on domestic spending.

Here's the thing. When you look at raising the debt limit, it should be
leverage to try to reform government. In 2011, the sequester was passed as a
reform to slow down the rate of government. Instead, the Washington
establishment raised both. We raised the military spending, took from
entitlements, and raised domestic spending and the deficit will explode under
this. This is the unholy alliance that people need to know about between right
and left. Right and left are spending us into oblivion. We should use the debt
ceiling, as precisely to Don, to force upon them budgetary reforms.


 Well, that's a real question. Is there going to be any change in the House with new leadership? I frankly don't think there will be much change because I think what's going to happen is you're going to get more of the same. People in Washington think they were sent there to be adults and govern and do all this. Well, you know what I'm worried about? Not keeping the government open. I'm worried about bankrupting the American people.

We're borrowing a million dollars a minute. That is important. And that's what
we have to contrast. Keeping the government open and continuing to borrow a
million dollars a minute.




 Well, thank you very much. I would like to thank Ted for co-sponsoring my bill, audit the Fed. And I think it's precisely because of the arrogance of someone like Ben Bernanke, who now calls us all know-nothings, that is precisely why we need audit the Fed.

I think it is really very much a huge problem that an organization as powerful
as the Fed comes in, lobbies against them being audited on the Hill. I would
prevent them lobbying Congress. I don't think the Fed should be involved with
lobbying us.

I think we should examine how the Fed has really been part of the problem. You
want to study income inequality, let's bring the Fed forward and talk about
Fed policy and how it causes income inequality.

Let's also bring the Fed forward and have them explain how they caused the
housing boom and the crisis, and what they've done to make us better or worse.
I think the Fed has been a great problem in our society.

What you need to do is free up interest rates. Interest rates are the price of
money, and we shouldn't have price controls on the price of money.


 ...John...


 John, I'd like to address this? John, could I follow up on this?


 What are the rules on who gets to follow up. How do we decide on who gets to follow up? I've seen plenty of other people follow up?


 I'd like to just mention something about my tax plan, and how it relates to the discussion...


 Alright. Much of the discussion is centered over whether or not the different tax plans help, or affect the middle class. In fact, it's the chief argument by democrats against many of the different flat tax proposals. Mine is unique in the sense that my tax plan actually gets rid of the payroll tax as well. It shifts it to the business, and it would allow middle class people to get a tax cut.

If you just cut their income tax, there isn't much income tax to cut. Mine
actually cuts the payroll tax, and I think it would spread the tax cut across
all socioeconomic levels, and would allow then it to be something that would
be broadly supported by the public in an election.


 The question always is, what works better, the private marketplace or government? And what distributes goods better? It always seems to be the private marketplace does a better job.

Is there an area for a safety net? Can you have Medicare or Social Security?
Yes. But you ought to acknowledge the government doesn't do a very good job at
it.

The main problem with Medicare right now is that the average person pays in
taxes over their whole lifetime about $100,000. But the average person takes
out about $350,000. We have this enormous mismatch because we have smaller and
smaller families.

When people ask me, whose fault is it? Whose fault is it that Medicare is
broken, out of money, that Social Security is broken, out of money? And I say,
look, it's not Republicans' fault, it's not Democrats' fault, it's your
grandparents' fault for having too many damn kids. 

After the war we had all of these kids, Baby Boomers. Now we're having smaller
families. We used to have 16 workers for one retiree, now you have three
workers for one retiree.

It's not working. I have a bill to fix Medicare. I've a bill to fix Social
Security. For both of them you have to gradually raise the age. If you're not
willing to do that, nobody wants to do it, but if you're not willing to
gradually raise the age, you're not serious about fixing either one of them.


 Say again?


 You can't do nothing. And that's what I hear from some people, "we'll do nothing and it will just be fixed." That's absurd, and I think people who don't want to fix it, really, or unwilling to take the chance to say, "something has to change," are missing the boat here.

The age will have to gradually rise, there is no question. It's the only way
you fix Medicare, the only way you fix Social Security. You will also have to
means-test the benefits and declare there's not enough money.

It isn't "I put money in, I'm getting it back." There is no money, it's a
stack of paper. There is no money in the Social Security account. There is no
money in the Medicare account. There's only a promise to pay by the next
generation, and the next generation's not big enough to pay it.



: ...to deal with this. We did it 200 days ago.


 Liberty thrives when government is small. I want a government so small I can barely see it. I want a government so small that the individual has a chance to thrive and prosper. I think, though, government is too big now. And what you're going to see in Washington this week is establishment Republicans have made an agreement with the president to raise the debt ceiling in an unlimited fashion; no limit to the debt ceiling raise.

This is extraordinary. It's extraordinarily wrong. You'll see me on the floor
of the Senate tomorrow filibustering this and saying enough is enough, no more
debt.


 Absolutely. And I think that we ought to look where income inequality seems to be the worst. It seems to be worst in cities run by Democrats, governors of... 

States run by Democrats and countries currently run by Democrats. So the thing
is, let's look for root causes.

But I would also say — lay some blame at the — the feet of the Federal
Reserve. I think the Federal Reserve has made this problem worse. By
artificially keeping interest rates below the market rate, average ordinary
citizens have a tough time earning interest, have a tough time making money.
They're actually talking now about negative interest.

The money as it's created through quantitative easing or other means tends to
start out in the big banks in New York. And because we're now paying interest
for them to keep the money there, much of that money has not filtered out into
the economy. So what we're finding is there is increasing income disparity and
income inequality.

We also find that as the Federal Reserve destroys the value of the currency,
what you're finding is that, if you're poor, if you make $20,000 a year and
you have three or four kids, and you're trying to get by, as your prices rise
or as the value of the dollar shrinks, these are the people that are hurt the
worst.

So really we need to reexamine whether we not — we want a Federal Reserve
that's involved so much in determining interest rates. We also need to look at
root causes as to what caused the housing boom and the housing collapse.

But the bottom line is, if you want less income inequality, move to a city
with a Republican mayor or a state with a Republican governor. 


 Well, it's a great question, Neil, and thanks for including me in the tax debate. 

I think what's important about the tax debate is, is that we have to ask the
question, where is money best spent, in the private sector or in the
government sector? I want a government really, really small, so small you can
barely see it. So I want lower taxes and much more money in the private
sector. 

My tax plan, however, is the only tax plan among any of the candidates on the
stage that is part of a balanced budget plan. I put forward three plans that
actually balance the budget over a five-year period.

Each of these plans have details on exactly where we would cut. The question
came up earlier, where would you cut? Nobody likes to say where they would
cut. I've put pencil to paper and done three budgets that actually balance.

I'm also in favor of a plan called the penny plan where we'd just cut 1
percent across the board and the budget actually balances in less than five
years. So I think what is extraordinary about my tax plan is it is in the
context of balancing the budget.

What is also extraordinary about my tax plan is it gets rid of the payroll
tax. Democrats demagogue this issue to death, and when they do they say, oh, a
millionaire would get a bigger tax cut than someone making $10,000.

That's proportionality, as Ben is trying to explain to folks. But the thing
is, is if we get rid of the payroll tax, everybody is going to get a tax cut.
And this is something that I think the public at large will support and could
win an election. 


 Ours is 14.5 percent for corporations, 14.5 percent for individuals. No payroll tax for the employee. The business tax pays for social security, and there would be two remaining deductions — home mortgage and charity.


 Thank you. 


 Neil, there's a point I'd like to make here...  ....Neil, a point that I'd like to make about the tax credits. 

We have to decide what is conservative and what isn't conservative. Is it
fiscally conservative to have a trillion-dollar expenditure? We're not talking
about giving people back their tax money. He's talking about giving people
money they didn't pay. It's a welfare transfer payment.

So here's what we have. Is it conservative to have $1 trillion in transfer
payments — a new welfare program that's a refundable tax credit? Add that to
Marco's plan for $1 trillion in new military spending, and you get something
that looks, to me, not very conservative. Thank you. 




 Nevertheless, it's not very conservative, Marco.


 How is it conservative?


 Yeah, but, Marco! Marco! How is it conservative, how is it conservative to add a trillion-dollar expenditure for the federal government that you're not paying for?


 How is it conservative? 


 How is it conservative to add a trillion dollars in military expenditures? You can not be a conservative if you're going to keep promoting new programs that you're not going to pay for.  


 No. I don't think we're any safer — I do not think we are any safer from bankruptcy court. As we go further, and further into debt, we become less, and less safe. This is the most important thing we're going to talk about tonight. Can you be a conservative, and be liberal on military spending? Can you be for unlimited military spending, and say, Oh, I'm going to make the country safe? No, we need a safe country, but, you know, we spend more on our military than the next ten countries combined?

I want a strong national defense, but I don't want us to be bankrupt. [_bell
ringing_]




 Hey, Gerard, you know, we might want to point out China is not part of this deal.


 Before we get a little bit off-kilter here...


 There is an argument that China doesn't like the deal, because in us doing the deal, we'll be trading with their competitors. You're exactly right. But I think we've sort of missed the point a little bit here. 

There is an important point, though, about how we discuss these trade treaties
that I do agree with Mr. Trump on. We should negotiate from a position of
strength. And we also should negotiate using the full force and the
constitutional power that was given to us. I think it's a mistake that we give
up power to the presidency on these trade deals. We give up the power to
filibuster, and I'm kind of fond of that power. 

We give up the power to amend. And I think, really, one of the big problems we
have in our country is, over the last century, really, so much power has
gravitated to the executive branch. Really, Congress is kind of a bystander.
We don't write the rules. We don't make the laws. The executive branch does.
So even in trade — and I am for trade — I think we should be careful about
giving so much power to the presidency. 


 I'd like first to respond to the acquisition, we should — I think it's particularly naive, particularly foolish to think that we're not going to talk to Russia. The idea of a no fly zone, realize that this is also something that Hillary Clinton agrees with several on our side with, you're asking for a no fly zone in an area in which Russia already flies.

Russia flies in that zone at the invitation of Iraq. I'm not saying it's a
good thing, but you better know at least what we're getting into. So, when you
think it's going to be a good idea to have a no fly zone over Iraq, realize
that means you are saying we are going to shoot down Russian planes. If you're
ready for that, be ready to send your sons and daughters to another war in
Iraq.

I don't want to see that happen. I think the first war in Iraq was a
mistake...  You can be strong without being involved
in every civil war around the war...


 Ronald Reagan was strong, but Ronald Reagan didn't...


 ...send troops into the Middle East...


 ...Can I finish...


 ...Can I finish my time? 

Could I finish with my time?


 Yes, I would like to finish my response, basically.


 This is an important question. This is an incredibly important question. And the question goes to be, who do we want to be our commander-in-chief? Do you want a commander-in-chief who says something that we never did throughout the entire Cold War, to discontinue having conversations with the Russians?

I am not happy about them flying over there. But I'm not naive enough to say,
well, Iraq has them flying over their airspace, we're just going to announce
that we're shooting them down?

That is naive to the point of being something you might hear in junior high.
But it's scary...




 The first thing I would do is I wouldn't arm our enemies. I wouldn't arm ISIS. 

Most of the people who want to the no-fly zone also favored arming the allies
of al Qaeda, which became ISIS. That was the dumbest, most foolhardy notion.
And most of the people up here supported it. They wanted to arm the allies of
al Qaeda. Some of them still do.

That's how ISIS grew. We pushed back Assad, and ISIS was allowed to grow in
the vacuum. So the first thing you do is don't arm your enemies.




 Gerard, can I comment... 




 The first thing I would do as president is repeal the regulations that are hampering our energy that the President has put in place.  

Including the Clean Power Act. While I do think that man may have a role in
our climate, I think nature also has a role. The planet's 4.5 billion years
old, we've been through geologic age after geologic age. We've had times when
the temperatures been warmer, we've had times when the temperatures been
colder. We've had times when the carbon in the atmosphere's been higher. So, I
think before we — we need to look before we leap.

President's often fond of saying he wants a balance solution, but, really we
do need to balance both keeping the environment clean, and we will have some
rules for that. We got to balance that with the economy.

He's devastated my state. I say the President's not only destroying Kentucky,
he's destroying the democrat party down there because nobody wants to
associate with him. So, what we really need is somebody that understands that
we do need energy of all forms, and that means we will have solar, and wind,
and hydro, but we will still have coal, and we still will have natural gas.
And, we've got to have an all of the above policy.

But, it would be a mistake to shut down all of our industries in the coal
fields, and shut down the coal power plants. If we did so we're going to have
a day where we wake up and some of our big cities are either very cold, or
very hot. So, I think it's a big danger, and we shouldn't do it. And, what we
should do is say we want all of the above...  ...We want to
free up the energy sector, and let people produce, let them drill, let them
explore.


 We're the richest, freest, most humanitarian nation in the history of mankind. But we also borrow a million dollars a minute. And the question I have for all Americans is, think about it, can you be a fiscal conservative if you don't conserve all of the money? If you're a profligate spender, you spend money in an unlimited fashion for the military, is that a conservative notion? We have to be conservative with all spending, domestic spending and welfare spending. I'm the only fiscal conservative on the stage. 


 The question is, how do we keep America safe from terrorism? Trump says we ought to close that Internet thing. The question really is, what does he mean by that? Like they do in North Korea? Like they do in China?

Rubio says we should collect all Americans' records all of the time. The
Constitution says otherwise. I think they're both wrong. I think we defeat
terrorism by showing them that we do not fear them. I think if we ban certain
religions, if we censor the Internet, I think that at that point the
terrorists will have won. Regime change hasn't won. Toppling secular dictators
in the Middle East has only led to chaos and the rise of radical Islam. I
think if we want to defeat terrorism, I think if we truly are sincere about
defeating terrorism, we need to quit arming the allies of ISIS. If we want to
defeat terrorism, the boots on the ground — the boots on the ground need to be
Arab boots on the ground.

As commander-in-chief, I will do whatever it takes to defend America. But in
defending America, we cannot lose what America stands for. Today is the Bill
of Rights' anniversary. I hope we will remember that and cherish that in the
fight on terrorism.


 You know, I think Marco gets it completely wrong. We are not any safer through the bulk collection of all Americans' records. In fact, I think we're less safe. We get so distracted by all of the information, we're not spending enough time getting specific immigration — specific information on terrorists.

The other thing is, is the one thing that might have stopped San Bernardino,
that might have stopped 9/11 would have been stricter controls on those who
came here. And Marco has opposed at every point increased security — border
security for those who come to our country.

On his Gang of Eight bill, he would have liberalized immigration, but he did
not — and he steadfastly opposed any new border security requirements for
refugees or students.

Last week, I introduced another bill saying we need more security, we need
more scrutiny. Once again, Marco opposed this. So Marco can't have it both
ways. He thinks he wants to be this, "Oh, I'm great and strong on national
defense." But he's the weakest of all the candidates on immigration. He is the
one for an open border that is leaving us defenseless. If we want to defend
the country, we have to defend against who's coming in, and Marco is — has
more of an allegiance to Chuck Schumer and to the liberals than he does to
conservative policy. 


 If I was mentioned in the question, can I respond?


 Marco still misunderstands the immigration issue. What I put forward was an amendment that would have temporarily halted immigration from high-risk terrorist countries, but would have started it up, but I wanted them to go through Global Entry, which is a program where we do background checks.

The thing is, is that every terrorist attack we've had since 9/11 has been
legal immigration. Marco wants to expand that. I want more rules, more
scrutiny, and to defend the country, you have to defend the border.



 Wolf...


 Wolf, this legislation...


 This legislation on indefinite detention...


 ... I think deserves a little more attention.


 I think that by arming the allies of ISIS, the Islamic rebels against Assad, that we created a safe space or made that space bigger for ISIS to grow. I think those who have wanted regime change have made a mistake. When we toppled Gadhafi in Libya, I think that was a mistake. I think ISIS grew stronger, we had a failed state, and we were more at risk.

I'd like to also go back to, though, another question, which is, is Donald
Trump a serious candidate? The reason I ask this is, if you're going to close
the Internet, realize, America, what that entails. That entails getting rid of
the First amendment, OK? It's no small feat.

If you are going to kill the families of terrorists, realize that there's
something called the Geneva Convention we're going to have to pull out of. It
would defy every norm that is America. So when you ask yourself, whoever you
are, that think you're going to support Donald Trump, think, do you believe in
the Constitution? Are you going to change the Constitution? 


 I think that if you believe in regime change, you're mistaken. In 2013, we put 600 tons of weapons — us, Saudi Arabia, and Qatar — into the war against Assad. By pushing Assad back, we did create a safe space.

We had people coming to our Foreign Relations Committee and saying, "Oh, we
need to arm the allies of Al Qaida." They are still saying this. It is a crazy
notion. This is the biggest debate we should be having tonight is is regime
change a good idea; has it been a good idea.

There are still people — the majority on the stage, they want to topple Assad.
And then there will be chaos, and I think ISIS will then be in charge of
Syria.


 These are the fundamental questions of our time, these foreign policy questions, whether or not regime change is a good idea or a bad idea. I don't think because I think the regime change was a bad idea it means that Hussein was necessarily a good idea.

There is often variations of evil on both sides of the war. What we have to
decide is whether or not regime change is a good idea. It's what the
neoconservatives have wanted. It's what the vast majority of those on the
stage want.

They still want regime change. They want it in Syria. They wanted it in Iraq.
They want it in Libya. It has not worked.

Out of regime change you get chaos. From the chaos you have seen repeatedly
the rise of radical Islam. So we get this profession of, oh, my goodness, they
want to do something about terrorism and yet they're the problem because they
allow terrorism to arise out of that chaos. 


 No, I think it's a huge mistake. I think regime change in Syria, and this is what — I've been saying this for several years now. In 2013 when we first went in, I said, you are going to give arms to the allies of al Qaida, to radical jihadists? That's crazy.

But the other thing I said is the great irony is you will be back fighting
against your own weapons. Had Assad been bombed when he used chemical weapons
two years ago, ISIS would be in charge of all of Syria now.

We have to have a more realistic foreign policy and not a utopian one where we
say, oh, we're going to spread freedom and democracy, and everybody in the
Middle East is going to love us. They are not going to love us. 




 Well, I think if you're in favor of World War III, you have your candidate. You know, here's...... the thing. My goodness, what we want in a leader is someone with judgment, not someone who is so reckless as to stand on the stage and say, "Yes, I'm jumping up and down; I'm going to shoot down Russian planes." Russia already flies in that airspace. It may not be something we're in love with the fact that they're there, but they were invited by Iraq and by Syria to fly in that airspace.

And so if we announce we're going to have a no-fly zone, and others have said
this. Hillary Clinton is also for it. It is a recipe for disaster. It's a
recipe for World War III. We need to confront Russia from a position of
strength, but we don't need to confront Russia from a point of recklessness
that would lead to war.

This is something — this type of judgment, you know, it's having that kind of
judgment; who you would appoint and how you're going to conduct affairs, that
is incredibly important.

I mean, I think when we think about the judgment of someone who might want
World War III, we might think about someone who might shut down a bridge
because they don't like their friends; they don't want to — you know, they
want to  a Democrat.

So I think we need to be very careful.


 You know, I think we need to set the record straight on this, because I think Marco misspoke about the bill. On the Gang of Eight bill, there was no provisions really for extra scrutiny or safety for refugees. At the time the bill came up, two Iraqi refugees came to my home town, Bowling Green, Kentucky. Their fingerprints were on a bomb from Iraq. They were in the database, but we didn't pick them up.

We relocated them here, put them in government housing, got them on food
stamps. And we began providing for them, but we didn't have adequate security.
On the Gang of Eight bill, on Marco's bill, we had an opportunity. There was a
conservative consensus for an amendment I put forward called Trust, But Verify
that would have strengthened border security on both refugees, students and
those coming here. And Marco sided and I guess was more sympathetic to Chuck
Schumer and to the president than he was to conservative principles.

But this goes directly to national defense. And if he wants to run as a
national — national defense conservative, he's got to explain why he hasn't
stepped up to support border security.


 What my bill would do would be only for refugees going forward. So I haven't taken a position on sending anyone home. But I have taken the position that we have a lot of problems here in our country. And that one of the things that we do — charity is about giving your own money. Charity isn't giving someone else's money. To put everyone in government housing and food stamps and bring them in from around the world I think is a mistake. To give of your own money, I've given to my church. My church has helped people that came from Bosnia. That's a good thing.

But we shouldn't have a program where we just say that we're going to take
care of the world's refugees. Nobody in the Middle East is doing anything.
Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Kuwait — all the Gulf nations are doing nothing. They
need to step up and take... 


 The greatest threat to our national security is our debt. We borrow a million dollars a minute. And whose fault is it? Well, frankly, it's both parties' fault. You have those on the right who clamor and say, oh, we will spend anything on the military, and those on the left who say the same for domestic welfare.

But what most Americans don't realize is there is an unholy alliance. They
come together. There's a secret handshake. We spend more money on everything.
And we are not stronger nation if we go further into debt. We are not
projecting power from bankruptcy court.

To me, there is no greater threat than our debt. I'm the only fiscal
conservative on the stage because I'm willing to hold the line on all
spending. I hope you will consider me in the election. Thank you very much.



 You know, I've always had a great deal of respect. There's probably no person I respect more in the country or in recent history than my father. I think he was probably the most honest man in politics that we've ever seen in a generation.

And so in no way have I ever said that I don't embrace my father or love my
father or appreciate everything that he has done for the country. I think
what's interesting about where that liberty vote goes that my father brought
to the Republican Party is, I don't think they're necessarily going to go for
Ted.

You know, Ted didn't show up. We had an audit-the-Fed vote, which was the
biggest thing my dad had been advocating for, for 30 years, Ted didn't have
time to show up. He was the only Republican that didn't show up for it.

And so I think really that vote is going to stay in the Paul household. I
think more of it is coming and it's going to grow.

The NSA is another big issue. Ted said he was for NSA reform, but then he told
Marco Rubio, no, no, no, I voted for the bill because I'm for the government
collecting 100 percent of your cell phone records.

I don't think Ted can have it both ways. They want to say they're getting some
of the liberty vote. But we don't see it happening at all. We think we're
going to do very well in Iowa with the liberty vote. 


 May I respond?




 Well, I mean, I was talked about in the question.


 Just very quickly, I would like to respond.

The bulk collection of your phone data, the invasion of your privacy did not
stop one terrorist attack. I don't think you have to give up your liberty for
a false sense of security.

When we look at this bulk collection, the court has looked at this. Even the
court declared it to be illegal. If we want to collect the records of
terrorists, let's do it the old fashioned way. Let's use the Fourth Amendment.
Let's put a name on a warrant, let's ask a judge for it. Let's respect the
history of our country.

John Adams said that we fought a War for Independence because we wanted to
fight against generalized warrants. Let's don't forget that. 


 My budget was mentioned. My budget was mentioned.


 ... Senator Cruz, I'd like to respond...


 ... and I'd like to respond.


 Thank you, Marco.


 Thank you.

The issue in Syria's a very important one, and it's one we need to get right.
The question is, should we be bombing both sides of the war? Some want to
topple Assad. In fact, they want to bomb ISIS and Assad simultaneously.

I think that's a really, really bad idea. In fact, I've said for several years
that arming the allies of ISIS will make the situation worse, That what we
really need to do is defeat ISIS.

But if you defeat Assad, what you will wind up with is a larger and more
powerful ISIS that occupies that space. You might — you may well see an ISIS
that takes over all of Syria. 


 .


 Yeah, no, I think that's a — that's a huge mistake, to be closing down mosques. But I would say that if you want to defend the country, it begins with border security. And this is where I've had my disagreement with Senator Rubio.

When he brought forward the "Gang of Eight" bill to give citizenship to those
who came here illegally, I put forward an amendment that says we should have
more scrutiny on those who are coming as students, those who are coming as
immigrants, those who are coming as refugees, because we had two refugees come
to my town in Bowling Green and try to attack us.

Marco opposed this because they made a deal. He made a deal with Chuck Schumer
that he would oppose any conservative amendments. And I think that's a
mistake, and I just don't think Marco can have it both ways. You can't be in
favor of defend us...  ... against Islam — radical Islam — if
you're not for border security.


 You know, I've supported legislation to allow body cameras. I've been to Ferguson, I've been trying to look for solutions to our criminal justice problem.

One thing I discovered in Ferguson was that a third of the budget for the city
of Ferguson was being reaped by civil fines. People were just being fined to
death. Now you and I and many of the people in this audience, if we get a $100
fine, we can survive it. If you're living on the edge of poverty and you get a
$100 fine or your car towed, a lot of times you lose your job.

I also think the war on drugs has disproportionately affected our African-
American community, and what we need to do is make sure that the war on drugs
is equal protection under the law and that we don't unfairly incarcerate
another generation of young African-American males.

In Ferguson, for every 100 African-American women, there are only 60 African-
American men. Drug use is about equal between white and black, but our prisons
— three out of four people in prison are black or brown. I think something has
to change. I think it's a big thing that our party needs to be part of, and
I've been a leader in Congress on trying to bring about criminal justice
reform. 


 I was there and I saw the debate. I saw Ted Cruz say, "we'll take citizenship off the table, and then the bill will pass, and I'm for the bill."

The bill would involve legalization. He can't have it both ways. But what is
particularly insulting, though, is that he is the king of saying, "you're for
amnesty." Everybody's for amnesty except for Ted Cruz.

But it's a falseness, and that's an authenticity problem — that everybody he
knows is not as perfect as him because we're all for amnesty. I was for
legalization. I think, frankly, if you have border security, you can have
legalization. So was Ted, but now he says it wasn't so. That's not true.


 You know, I think abortion is always wrong. I've supported a variety of solutions, both state as well as federal. In fact, just last week, I introduced the Life at Conception act, which would say that the 14th amendment would defend an individual even in the womb.

But I think on the broader question of religion and politics, you know, I
think liberty, itself requires a virtue — requires a virtuous people. In fact,
Washington said that democracy requires a virtuous people.

Oz Guinness, the theologian, said that liberty requires restraint but the only
restraint consistent with liberty is self-restraint. There's a lot packed into
that statement. But the bottom line is we must have virtue, we must have a
religious bearing as a nation. The government is not always going to save us
and it's not always going to come from government.

But if we don't know right and wrong, I think we have lost our way. I think we
become unmoored and I think without the religious foundation that guides us
all, I think we have a great risk of going horribly in the wrong direction.


 Both. No, both the federal and a state approach. I have said that we could leave it to the states but I've also introduced a federal solution as well. So the federal solution would be the Life at Conception act which is an act that would federalize the issue.

But I've also said for the most part, these issues would be left back to the
states. So there might be an occasion if we did overturn Roe v. Wade — Roe v.
Wade nationalized the issue. If you had the court reverse Roe v. Wade, it
would become a state issue once again.

I think it would be better the more — the less abortions we have, so the more
states that we have that made abortion illegal, the better, as far as trying
to save and preserve lives.


 You know, I've never really brought this up unless asked the question, but I have responded to the question. I don't blame Hillary Clinton at all for this. I don't think she's responsible for his behavior. But I do think that her position as promoting women's rights and fairness to women in the workplace, that if what Bill Clinton did any CEO in our country did with an intern, with a 22-year- old, 21-year-old intern in their office, they would be fired. They would never be hired again. 

Fired, never hired again and probably shunned in their community. And the
thing is, she can't be a champion of women's rights at the same time she's got
this that is always lurking out there, this type of behavior. So it is
difficult.


 Yeah. But I combine this also with the millions upon millions of dollars they've taken from regimes in the Middle East who treat women like cattle. 


 Well, thanks for having me. It's great to be back. 

I'm an eye surgeon from Bowling Green, Kentucky, I miss doing eye surgery,
still get to do a little bit. Did a couple of cataract surgeries over
Christmas holidays. Got to go to Haiti last year. I've gotten to do some
incredible things. Got to be on the floor of the Senate. And it has been
amazing to me.

But the thing that is most important to me and caused me to run for office is
I'm worried about the country and how much debt we're adding. And I am the one
true fiscal conservative who will look at all spending. And that's the only
way we'll ever balance our budget.

Thank you. 


