 Well, thank you for the question, Chris, and it's great to be here tonight. Let me begin by saying this: I'm not new to the political process; I was making a contribution as the speaker of the third largest and most diverse state in the country well before I even got into the Senate. 

I would add to that that this election cannot be a resume competition. It's
important to be qualified, but if this election is a resume competition, then
Hillary Clinton's gonna be the next president, because she's been in office
and in government longer than anybody else running here tonight.

Here's what this election better be about: This election better be about the
future, not the past. It better be about the issues our nation and the world
is facing today, not simply the issues we once faced.

This country is facing an economy that has been radically transformed. You
know, the largest retailer in the country and the world today, Amazon, doesn't
even own a single store? And these changes have been disruptive. They have
changed people's lives. The jobs that once sustained our middle class, they
either don't pay enough or they are gone, and we need someone that understands
that as our nominee.

If I'm our nominee, how is Hillary Clinton gonna lecture me about living
paycheck to paycheck? I was raised paycheck to paycheck. How is she -- how is
she gonna lecture me -- how is she gonna lecture me about student loans? I
owed over $100,000 just four years ago.

If I'm our nominee, we will be the party of the future. 


 Let me set the record straight on a couple of things. The first is, the evidence is now clear that the majority of people coming across the border are not from Mexico. They're coming from Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras. Those countries are the source of the people that are now coming in its majority. 

I also believe we need a fence. The problem is if El Chapo builds a tunnel
under the fence, we have to be able to deal with that too. And that's why you
need an e-verify system and you need an entry-exit tracking system and all
sorts of other things to prevent illegal immigration. But I agree with what
Governor Kasich just said. People are frustrated. This is the most generous
country in the world when it comes to immigration. There are a million people
a year who legally immigrate to the United States, and people feel like we're
being taken advantage of. We feel like despite our generosity, we're being
taken advantage of.

And let me tell you who never gets talked about in these debates. The people
that call my office, who have been waiting for 15 years to come to the United
States. And they've paid their fees, and they hired a lawyer, and they can't
get in. And they're wondering, maybe they should come illegally. 

And so these are important issues, and we should address it. It's a serious
problem that needs to be addressed, and otherwise we're going to keep talking
about this for the next 30 years, like we have for the last 30 years.


 Not me. 


 Actually, to be clear......he supported Charlie Crist. 


 Hey, Charlie... 


 Well, first off, I too believe in curriculum reform. It is critically important in the 21st Century. We do need curriculum reform. And it should happen at the state and local level. That's. . . that's. . . that is where educational policy belongs, because if a parent is unhappy with what their child is being taught in school, they can go to that local school board or their state legislature, or their governor and get it changed. 

Here's the problem with Common Core. The Department of Education, like every
federal agency, will never be satisfied. They will not stop with it being a
suggestion. They will turn it into a mandate.

In fact, what they will begin to say to local communities is, you will not get
federal money unless do you things the way we want you to do it. And they will
use Common Core or any other requirements that exists nationally to force it
down the throats of our people in our states. 


 That's a great question.


 That's a great question.

First of all, it begins by having leaders that recognize that the economy we
live in today is dramatically different from the one we had five years ago.
It's an economy that now has placed us in global competition with dozens of
other countries around the world.

Now, the big companies that have connections with Washington, they can affect
policies to help them, but the small companies like the one Tania is talking
about, they're the ones that are struggling.

The first thing we need to do is we need to even out the tax code for small
businesses so that we lower their tax rate to 25 percent, just as we need to
lower it for all businesses.

We need to have a regulatory budget in America that limits the amount of
regulations on our economy. We need to repeal and replace Obamacare and we
need to improve higher education so that people can have access to the skills
they need for 21st century jobs.

And last but not least, we need to repeal Dodd-Frank. It is eviscerating small
businesses and small banks.  20 — over 40 percent of small and
mid-size banks that loan money to small businesses have been wiped out over
the — since Dodd-Frank has passed. We need to repeal and replace Dodd-Frank.
We need to make America fair again for all businesses, but especially those
being run by small business owners.


 Well, Megyn, first of all, I'm not sure that that's a correct assessment of my record. I would go on to add that I believe all-- 


 I have never said that. And I have never advocated that. What I have advocated is that we pass law in this country that says all human life at every stage of its development is worthy of protection. 

In fact, I think that law already exists. It is called the Constitution of the
United States. 

And let me go further. I believe that every single human being is entitled to
the protection of our laws, whether they can vote or not. Whether they can
speak or not. Whether they can hire a lawyer or not. Whether they have a birth
certificate or not. And I think future generations will look back at this
history of our country and call us barbarians for murdering millions of babies
who we never gave them a chance to live. 


 Well, first, let me say I think God has blessed us. He has blessed the Republican Party with some very good candidates. The Democrats can't even find one.   

And I believe God has blessed our country. This country has been
extraordinarily blessed. And we have honored that blessing. And that's why God
has continued to bless us.

And he has blessed us with young men and women willing to risk their lives and
sometimes die in uniform for the safety and security of our people.

Unfortunately today we have a VA that does not do enough for them. I am proud
that last year we helped change the law. We changed the law to give the power
to the VA secretary the ability to fire any executive that isn't doing their
job.

And it is outrageous they've only fired one person to date. When I'm president
of the United States, we're going to have a VA that cares more about our
veterans than about the bureaucrats who work at the VA. [_cheering and
applause_]


 Thank you. You know, both of my parents were born into poor families on the island of Cuba. They came to America because it was the only place where people like them could have a chance. Here in this country, they never made it big, but the very purpose of their life was to give us the chance to do all the things they never could. 

My father was a bartender. And the journey from the back of that bar to this
stage tonight, to me, that is the essence of the American dream. It is what
makes our nation different. And I'm running for president because I want that
to still be possible for the people trying to do that now. I run for president
because I believe that we can't just save the American dream; we can expand it
to reach more people and change more lives than ever before. And that's why
I'm asking for your vote. So we can make America greater than it has ever
been. And make of this century a new American century. 


 Thank you. My name is Marco Rubio. I'm from Florida. My wife Jeanette and I are the proud — we've been married 17 years, and we're the proud parents of four children, two of whom were able to join us here this evening. 

I'm honored to be here at the Reagan Library, at a place that honors the
legacy of a man who inspired not just my interest in public service, but also
our love for country.

And I'm also aware that California has a drought, and so that's why I made
sure I brought my own water. 


 Well, first of all, I have an understanding of exactly what it is Russia and Putin are doing, and it's pretty straightforward. He wants to reposition Russia, once again, as a geopolitical force. 

He himself said that the destruction of the Soviet Union — the fall of the
Soviet Union was the greatest geopolitical catastrophe of the 20th century,
and now he's trying to reverse that.

He's trying to destroy NATO. And this is what this is a part of. He is
exploiting a vacuum that this administration has left in the Middle East.

Here's what you're gonna see in the next few weeks: the Russians will begin to
fly — fly combat missions in that region, not just targeting ISIS, but in
order to prop up Assad.

He will also, then, turn to other countries in the region and say, "America is
no longer a reliable ally, Egypt. America is no longer a reliable ally, Saudi
Arabia. Begin to rely on us."

What he is doing is he is trying to replace us as the single most important
power broker in the Middle East, and this president is allowing it. That is
what is happening in the Middle East. That's what's happening with Russia,
and...


 Let me tell you — I will tell you we have zero responsibility, because let's remember what the president said. He said the attack he would conduct would be a pinprick. Well, the United States military was not build to conduct pinprick attacks. 

If the United States military is going to be engaged by a commander-in-chief,
it should only be engaged in an endeavor to win. And we're not going to
authorize use of force if you're not put in a position where they can win.

And quite frankly, people don't trust this president as commander-in-chief
because of that. 


 Hold on, a second, Jake, he asked me, as well. I'd like to actually... 


 ... respond. I think I'm the first senator.  

The No. 1 test for use of military force should be the vital national security
interest of the United States. The reason why I opposed President Obama
bombing Syria, is because he couldn't answer the question what do you do if
chemical weapons end up in the hands of radical Islamic terrorists like al-
Nusra, like Al Qaida, like ISIS?

Now, I also want to respond to several folks up here who said we should trust
this Iranian deal, see if the Iranians will comply.

Anyone who is paying attention to what Khamenei says knows that they will not
comply. There is a reason Khamenei refers to Israel as the little Satan, and
America as the great Satan.


 In the middle of negotiating this treaty, Khamenei led the assembled masses in chanting, death to America. I'm reminded of a great editorial cartoon. It shows the Ayatollah Khamenei saying, "Death to all Americans," and then it shows John Kerry coming back, saying, "Can we meet ya half way?"  

We need a commander-in-chief who will stand up and protect this country. And
I'll tell you, I can't wait to stand on that debate stage with Hillary Clinton
and to make abundantly clear if you vote for Hillary, you are voting for the
Ayatollah Khomeini to possess a nuclear weapon and if you elect me as
president, under no circumstances will a theocratic ayatollah who chants death
to America ever be allowed to acquire a nuclear weapon.




 Ms. Dana, I agree that English is the unifying language of our country, and everyone should learn to speak it. It's important. 

I want to tell you a story about someone that didn't speak English that well.
It was my grandfather; he came to this country in the 1960s, as a — escaping
Cuba. And he lived with us, growing up.

And my grandfather loved America. He understood what was so special about this
country. He loved Ronald Reagan; he would be very proud of the fact that we're
here this evening.

My grandfather instilled in me the belief that I was blessed to live in the
one society in all of human history where even I, the son of a bartender and a
maid, could aspire to have anything, and be anything that I was willing to
work hard to achieve.

But he taught me that in Spanish, because it was the language he was most
comfortable in. And he became a conservative, even though he got his news in
Spanish.

And so, I do give interviews in Spanish, and here's why — because I believe
that free enterprise and limited government is the best way to help people who
are trying to achieve upward mobility.

And if they get their news in Spanish, I want them to hear that directly from
me. Not from a translator at Univision.


 Well, let me say that legal immigration is not an issue I read about in the newspaper. Immigration, illegal immigration, all the good aspects of immigration and all the negative ones as well, I live with. My family's immigrants. My neighbors are all immigrants. My in-laws are all immigrants. 

So I've seen every aspect of it, and I can tell you America doesn't have one
immigration problem, it has three.

First, despite the fact that we are the most generous country in the history
of the world in allowing people to come here legally, we have people still
coming illegally.

Second, we have a legal immigration system that no longer works. It primary is
built on the basis of whether you have a relative living here instead of
merit.

And third, we have 11 million or 12 million people, many of whom have been
here for longer than a decade who are already here illegally.

And we must deal with all three of these problems. We cannot deal with all
three of these problems in one massive piece of legislation. I learned that.
We tried it that way.

Here's the way forward: First, we must — we must secure our border, the
physical border, with — with a wall, absolutely. But we also need to have an
entry/exit tracking system. 40 percent of the people who come here illegally
come legally, and then they overstay the visa. We also need a mandatory
e-verify system.

After we've done that, step two would be to modernize our legal immigration
system so you come to America on the basis of what you can contribute
economically, not whether or not simply you have a relative living here.

And after we've done those two things, I believe the American people...


 ... will be very reasonable and responsible about what you do with someone who's been here and isn't a criminal. If you're a criminal, obviously, you will not be able to stay. 


 Yes, well, it does. But it's in the following way, this is an important question. I think if you're running for president, these are important issues, because look at around the world today. 

There is a lunatic in North Korea with dozens of nuclear weapons and long-
range rocket that can already hit the very place in which we stand tonight.
The Chinese are rapidly expanding their military. They hack into our
computers. They're building artificial islands in the South China Sea, the
most important shipping lane in the world.

A gangster in Moscow is not just threatening Europe, he's threatening to
destroy and divide NATO. You have radical jihadists in dozens of countries
across multiple continents. And they even recruit Americans using social media
to try to attack us here at home.

And now we have got this horrible deal with Iran where a radical Shia cleric
with an apocalyptic vision of the future is also guaranteed to one day possess
nuclear weapons and also a long-range rocket that can hit the United States.

These are extraordinarily dangerous times that we live in. And the next
president of the United States better be someone that understands these issues
and has good judgment about them because the number one issue that a president
will ever confront, and the most important obligation that the federal
government has, is to keep this nation safe.

And today we are not doing that. We are eviscerating our military. And we have
a president that is more respectful to the ayatollah in Iran than he is to the
prime minister of Israel. 


 Well, that's why we have a debate. I think that we should have a deeper debate about these issues, because there is no more important decision that a president will make. 


 Well, you should ask him questions in detail about the foreign policy issues our president will confront, because you had better be able to lead our country on the first day. 

Not six months from now, not a year from now, on the first day in office, our
president could very well confront a national security crisis. You can't
predict it. Sometimes you cannot control it.

And it is the most — the federal government does all kinds of things it's not
supposed to be doing. It regulates bathrooms. It regulates schools that belong
to local communities.

But the one thing that the federal government must do, the one thing that only
the federal government can do is keep us safe. And a president better be up-
to-date on those issues on his first day in office, on her first day in
office. 


 Trust (ph) me, I get that. OK. 


 I never get to addressed, and... 


 ...and when I do, I'm gonna jump in. 


 Yeah. He did. Let me — I'm proud to serve in the United States Senate. You know, when I ran five years ago, the entire leadership of my party in Washington lined up against me. 

But I'm glad I won. And I'm glad that I ran, because this country's headed in
the wrong direction. And if we keep electing the same people, nothing is going
to change.

And you're right, I have missed some votes, and I'll tell you why, Mr. Trump.
Because in my years in the Senate, I've figured out very quickly that the
political establishment in Washington, D.C. in both political parties is
completely out of touch with the lives of our people.

You have millions of people in this country living paycheck to paycheck, and
nothing is being done about it. We are about to leave our children with $18
trillion in — in — in debt, and they're about to raise the debt limit again.

We have a world that grows increasingly dangerous, and we are eviscerating our
military spending and signing deals with Iran. And these — if this thing
continues, we are going to be the first Americans to leave our children worse
off than ourselves.

That's why I'm missing votes. Because I am leaving the Senate, I'm not running
for re-election, and I'm running for president because I know this: unless we
have the right president, we cannot make America fulfill its potential, but
with the right person in office, the 21st century can be the greatest era that
our nation has ever known.


 I want to go even deeper — and I want to go even deeper in that direction, because I think the belief that somehow by retreating, America makes the world safer has been disproven every single time it's ever been tried. 

Syria's a perfect example of it. The uprising in Syria was not started by the
United States; it was started by the Syrian people. And I warned at the time —
this was three and a half years ago — I openly and repeatedly warned that if
we did not find moderate elements on the ground that we could equip and arm,
that void would be filled by radical jihadists.

Well, the president didn't listen, the administration didn't follow through,
and that's exactly what happened. That is why ISIS grew. That is why ISIS then
came over the border from Syria and back into Iraq.

What is happening in that region is the direct consequence of the inability to
lead and of disengagement. And the more we disengage, the more airplanes from
Moscow you're going to see flying out of Damascus and out of Syria...


 ... as you asked earlier today.  


 But radical terrorism cannot be solved by intellect. It cannot — they require — what they need, is they need an operating space. That's what Afghanistan was for Al Qaida. It was a vacuum that they filled, and they created an operating space. 

That's why they had to be drawn out of there. That's why they had to be
destroyed. It is the reason why ISIS has grown as well. We allowed them — we
allowed a vacuum to emerge in Syria. They used it as an operating space to
grow; and today they're not just in Iraq and Syria anymore, they're now in
Libya, conducting operations in the Sinai.

They're now in Afghanistan, trying to supplant the Taliban as the most
powerful radical jihadist group on the ground there, as well. You cannot allow
radical jihadists to have an operating safe haven anywhere in the world.


 There's a broader issue here, Hugh. And there's a broader issue here as well. 

First of all, the only people that follow the law are law-abiding people.
Criminals by definition ignore the law, so you can pass all the gun laws in
the world, like the left wants. The criminals are going to ignore it because
they are criminals.

Here's the real issue. 

The real issue — the real issue is not what are people using to commit
violence, but why are they committing the violence? And here's the truth:
Because you cannot separate the social, moral wellbeing of your people from
their economic and other wellbeing. You cannot separate it.

You can't have a strong country without strong people, you cannot have strong
people without strong values, and you cannot have strong values without strong
families and the institutions in this country that defend and support those
families.


 Well, and today, we have a left-wing government under this president that is undermining all of the institutions and society that support the family and teach those values. 


 Because we're not going to destroy our economy the way the left-wing government that we are under now wants to do. We're not going to... 


 Well, and I don't — he may have lined up with their positions on this issue. But here is the bottom line. Every proposal they put forward are going to be proposals that will make it harder to do business in America, that will make it harder to create jobs in America. 

Single parents are already struggling across this country to provide for their
families. Maybe a billionaire here in California can afford an increase in
their utility rates, but a working family in Tampa, Florida, or anywhere
across this country cannot afford it.

So we are not going to destroy our economy. We are not going to make America a
harder place to create jobs in order to pursue policies that will do
absolutely nothing, nothing to change our climate, to change our weather,
because America is a lot of things, the greatest country in the world,
absolutely.

But America is not a planet. And we are not even the largest carbon producer
anymore, China is. And they're drilling a hole and digging anywhere in the
world that they can get a hold of.

So the bottom line is, I am not in favor of any policies that make America a
harder place for people to live, or to work, or to raise their families.



 Jake, you mentioned me and called me a denier. Let me say, climate change... 


 OK. A skeptic. You can measure the climate. You can measure it. That's not the issue we're discussing. Here is what I'm skeptical of. I'm skeptical of the decisions that the left wants us to make, because I know the impact those are going to have and they're all going to be on our economy. 

They will not do a thing to lower the rise of the sea. They will not do a
thing to cure the drought here in California. But what they will do is they
will make America a more expensive place to create jobs.

And today with millions of people watching this broadcast that are struggling
paycheck to paycheck that do not know how they're going to pay their bills at
the end of this month, I'm not in favor of anything that is going to make it
harder for them to raise their family.




 Senator Rubio, you mean? 


 I know we all look alike.  


 The — Rosa Parks, an everyday American that changed the course of history. 


 Well, there are some people in Florida upset at me over a joke I made about Florida State, but, what the heck, I want my codename to be Gator.   


 One of the things that made Ronald Reagan a great president, is that he understood that America was a unique nation, like any other that had existed throughout human history. He knew it was founded on universal principles that were powerful, the dignity of all people, human rights, the rights of all to live in freedom and liberty, and choose their own path in life. He didn't just believe it, he acted on it. That's why bringing down communism was so important to him. If I'm honored with the opportunity to be president, I hope that our Air Force One will fly, first and foremost, to our allies; in Israel, in South Korea, and Japan. They know we stand with them. That America can be counted on. 

It would also fly to China, not just to meet with our enemies, not just to
meet with those adversaries of ours that are there, but also to meet with
those that aspire to freedom and liberty within China. I would even invite
them to my inauguration.

We would also fly into Moscow and into Russia. And not just meet with the
leaders of Russia, but also meet with those who aspire to freedom and liberty
in Russia. And ultimately, I hope that my Air Force One, if I become
president, will one day land in a free Cuba, where its people can choose its
leaders and its own destiny. 


 Thank you for that question. I would begin by saying that I'm not sure it's a weakness, but I do believe that I share a sense of optimism for America's future that, today, is eroding from too many of our people.

I think there's a sense in this country today that somehow our best days are
behind us. And that doesn't have to be true.

Our greatest days lie ahead if we are willing to do what it takes now. If
we're willing to do what it takes now, the 21st century is going to be the new
American century, greater than any other era we've had in the history of this
great nation.


 That's an interesting question. That's exactly what the Republican establishment says too. Why don't you wait in line? Wait for what? This country is running out of time. We can't afford to have another four years like the last eight years.

Watching this broadcast tonight are millions of people that are living
paycheck to paycheck. They're working as hard as they ever have, everything
costs more, and they haven't had a raise in decades.

You have small businesses in America that are struggling. For the first time
in 35 years, we have more businesses closing than starting. We have a world
that's out of control and has grown dangerous and a president that is
weakening our military and making our foreign policy unstable and unreliable
in the eyes of our allies. And our adversaries continue to grow stronger.

We have a — they say there's no bipartisanship in Washington? We have a $19
trillion bipartisan debt and it continues to grow as we borrow money from
countries that do not like us to pay for government we cannot afford.

The time to act is now. The time to turn the page is now. If we — if we don't
act now, we are going to be the first generation in American history that
leaves our children worse off than ourselves.


 Let me say, I read that editorial today with a great amusement. It's actually evidence of the bias that exists in the American media today.


 Let me — let me answer your question on the Sun-Sentinel editorial today. Back in 2004, one of my predecessors to the Senate by the name of Bob Graham, a Democrat, ran for president missing over 30 percent of his votes. I don't recall them calling for his resignation —


 Later that year, in 2004, John Kerry ran for president missing close to 60 to 70 percent of his votes. I don't recall the Sun — in fact, the Sun-Sentinel endorsed him. In 2008, Barack Obama missed 60 or 70 percent of his votes, and the same newspaper endorsed him again. So this is another example of the double standard that exists in this country between the mainstream media and the conservative movement. 


 I get to respond, right?


 Well, it's interesting. Over the last few weeks, I've listened to Jeb as he walked around the country and said that you're modeling your campaign after John McCain, that you're going to launch a furious comeback the way he did, by fighting hard in New Hampshire and places like that, carrying your own bag at the airport. You know how many votes John McCain missed when he was carrying out that furious comeback that you're now modeling after?


 No Jeb, I don't remember — well, let me tell you. I don't remember you ever complaining about John McCain's vote record. The only reason why you're doing it now is because we're running for the same position, and someone has convinced you that attacking me is going to help you.


 Here's the bottom line. 

I'm not — my campaign is going to be about the future of America, it's not
going to be about attacking anyone else on this stage. I will continue to have
tremendous admiration and respect for Governor Bush. I'm not running against
Governor Bush, I'm not running against anyone on this stage. I'm running for
president because there is no way we can elect Hillary Clinton to continue the
policies of Barack Obama.


 Well, you just — you just listed a litany of discredited attacks from Democrats and my political opponents, and I'm not gonna waste 60 seconds detailing them all. But I'm going to tell you the truth.

Here's the truth. I didn't inherit any money. My dad was a bartender, my
mother was a maid. They worked hard to provide us the chance at a better life.

They didn't save enough money for us to go to school. I had to work my way
through school. I had to borrow money to go to school. I tried (ph), early in
my marriage, explaining to my wife why someone named Sallie Mae was taking
$1,000 out of our bank account every month. 

I know what it's like to owe that money, and we've worked hard. We've worked
hard our whole life to provide a better family — a better life for our family.

We own a home four blocks away from the place that I grew up in. My four
children have been able to receive a good Christian education, and I've been
able to save for them to go to college so they never have to have the loans
that I did.

But I'm not worried about my finances, I'm worried about the finances of
everyday Americans who today are struggling in an economy that is not
producing good paying jobs while everything else costs more. And that's what
this economy needs to — that's what this debate needs to be about.

This debate needs to be about the men and women across this country that are
struggling on a daily basis to provide for their families the better future
that we've always said this country is all about.


 And I used it to pay off my loans. And it's available on paperback, if you're interested in buying my book. 


 Yeah, again, as I said, we're raising a family in the 21st century and it's one of the reasons why my tax plan is a pro- family tax plan.

It increases the per child tax credit, because I didn't read about this in a
book. I know for a fact how difficult it is to raise children, how expensive
it's become for working families. And I make a lot more than the average
American. Imagine how hard it is for these people out there that are making
40, 50, $60,000 a year, and they're trying to provide for their families at a
time when this economy is not growing.

We can't afford another four years of that. Which is what we're gonna get if
we elect a big government liberal like Hillary Clinton to the White House.

Thank you, senator.


 Well, first of all, if a company gets caught doing that, they should never be able to use the program again. If you get caught abusing this program, you should never be able to use it again.

The second thing I said is we need to add reforms, not just increase the
numbers, but add reforms. For example, before you hire anyone from abroad, you
should have to advertise that job for 180 days. You also have to prove that
you're going to pay these people more than you would pay someone else, so that
you're not undercutting it by bringing in cheap labor.

But here's the best solution of all. We need to get back to training people in
this country to do the jobs of the 21st century. Why, for the life of me, I do
not understand why did we stop doing vocational education in America, people
that can work with their hands; people you can train to do this work while
they're still in high school so they can graduate ready to go work. But the
best way to close this gap is to modernize higher education so Americans have
the skills for those jobs. But in the interim, in the absence of that, what's
happening is some of these tech companies are taking those — those centers
(ph) to Canada because they can get people to go over there instead of here.

But the ideal scenario is to train Americans to do the work so we don't have
to rely on people from abroad.


 Well, I believe that there are abuses, those companies should be permanently barred from ever using the program again and we should put strict standards in place to ensure that they're not being abused, like the prevailing wage requirement and like the advertising requirement.


 Since I've been mentioned, can I respond?




 OK. I know the Democrats have the ultimate SuperPac. It's called the mainstream media who every single day...  ... and I'll tell you why. Last week, Hillary Clinton went before a committee. She admitted she had sent e-mails to her family saying, "Hey, this attack at Benghazi was caused by Al Qaida-like elements." She spent over a week telling the families of those victims and the American people that it was because of a video. And yet the mainstream media is going around saying it was the greatest week in Hillary Clinton's campaign.

It was the week she got exposed as a liar. It was the week that she got
exposed as a liar... 

But she has her super PAC helping her out, the American mainstream media.


 No, that's — you're wrong. In fact, the largest after- tax gains is for the people at the lower end of the tax spectrum under my plan. And there's a bunch of things my tax plan does to help them.

Number one, you have people in this country that...


 ...you wrote a story on it, and you had to go back and correct it.


 You did. No, you did. 




 Well, you're talking about — yeah.


 Yeah, but that — because the math is, if you — 5 percent of a million is a lot more than 5 percent of a thousand. So yeah, someone who makes more money...


 ...numerically, it's gonna be higher. But the greatest gains, percentage-wise, for people, are gonna be at the lower end of our plan, and here's why: because in addition to a general personal exemption, we are increasing the per-child tax credit for working families.

We are lowering taxes on small business. You know, a lot of business activity
in America is conducted like the guy that does my dry cleaning. He's an S
corporation. He pays on his personal rate, and he is paying higher than the
big dry-cleaning chain down the street, because he's paying at his personal
rate.

Under my plan, no business, big or small, will pay more than 25 percent flat
rate on their business income. That is a dramatic tax decrease for hard-
working people who run their own businesses.




 ...The other thing I'd like to make about our plan, one more point, it is the most pro growth tax plan that I can imagine because it doesn't tax investments at all. You know why? Because the more you tax something, the less of it you get.

I want to be in — I want America to be the best...


 ...in the world for people...


 I was mentioned in the question.


 Thank you.

Well, I've learned the rules on this. 

Look, in addition to what Donald was saying is we also need to talk about the
legal immigration system for permanent residents. Today, we have a legal
immigration system for permanent residency that is largely based on whether or
not you have a relative living here. And that's the way my parents came
legally in 1956.

But in 2015, we have a very different economy. Our legal immigration system
from now on has to be merit-based. It has to be based on what skills you have,
what you can contribute economically, and most important of all, on whether or
not you're coming here to become an American, not just live in America, but be
an American.


 No. No. What I said was that I think that Dr. Carson's ideas are good ideas. They're not my ideas, and I don't necessarily agree with all of them.

But this is what you're seeing in the Republican debate that you didn't see in
that Democrat debate.

You didn't see it for a minute. You didn't see these kind of ideas being
batted around, and being batted around in a way that's civil and smart and
that's trying to help to inform the voter out there.

What you saw was a parade of, "I'll give you this for free; I'll give you that
for free."

Let me tell you, everybody, when they say they want to give it to you for
free, keep your hands on your wallets because they're coming to you to pay for
it. And that's why I think these ideas up here are great, and that's what we
should have is have more discussions like this and less gotcha.




 I want to take off from that point and argue the same thing. And that is that one of the things you're watching tonight are 11 quality candidates debating an important issue. The Republican Party is blessed to have 11 good candidates,  10 good candidates. The Democrats can't even come up with one.

And on this issue of the Medicare in particular, it's important because
they're going to demagogue what we're saying here tonight. Everyone up here
tonight that's talking about reforms, I think and I know for myself I speak to
this, we're all talking about reforms for future generations. Nothing has to
change for current beneficiaries. My mother is on Medicare and Social
Security. I'm against anything that's bad for my mother. 

So, we're talking about — we're talking about reform for people like me and
people like Senator Cruz, as he talked about earlier, who are years away from
retirement that have a way to plan for these changes, and way that's very
reasonable. And it's not too much to ask of our generation after everything
our parents and our grandparents did for us.


 You know, America doesn't owe me anything. I have a debt to America I'll never repay. This isn't just the country I was born in, this is the nation that literally changed the history of my family. My parents in this country were able to give me the chance to do all the things they never did. We call that the American Dream, although, it's built on the universal dream of a better life.

The fact that it's happened for so many people here throughout our history,
that's what makes us special. But, now for millions of Americans, it's
slipping away. And, we have a government and leaders in government that are
completely out of touch, and that's why I'm running for president. Because we
can't just save the American Dream, we can expand it to reach more people, and
change more lives than ever before.

And, that's why tonight I'm asking you for your vote.


 Well, let me begin by answering both the first question and this one, because they're related. As I've said many times before, my parents were never rich people. My father was a bartender. My mother was a maid. They worked for a living. But they were successful people, because, despite the fact that they weren't well educated and had those jobs, they made enough money to buy a home in a safe and stable neighborhood, retire with dignity, leave all four of their children better off than themselves. 

We call that the American dream, but in fact, it's a universal dream of a
better life that people have all over the world. It is a reminder that every
country in the world has rich people.

What makes America special is that we have millions and millions of people
that are not rich, that through hard work and perseverance are able to be
successful.

The problem is that today people are not successful working as hard as ever
because the economy is not providing jobs that pay enough. If I thought that
raising the minimum wage was the best way to help people increase their pay, I
would be all for it, but it isn't. In the 20th century, it's a disaster.

If you raise the minimum wage, you're going to make people more expensive than
a machine. And that means all this automation that's replacing jobs and people
right now is only going to be accelerated.

Here's the best way to raise wages. Make America the best place in the world
to start a business or expand an existing business, tax reform and regulatory
reform, bring our debt under control, fully utilize our energy resources so we
can reinvigorate manufacturing, repeal and replace Obamacare, and make higher
education faster and easier to access, especially vocational training. For the
life of me, I don't know why we have stigmatized vocational education. Welders
make more money than philosophers. We need more welders and less philosophers.


If we do that — and if we do this — if we do this, we will be able to increase
wages for millions of Americans and we will be able to leave everyone better
off without making anyone worse off.


 Well, you know, that's an excellent question, because what we are going through in this country is not simply an economic downturn. We are living through a massive economic transformation. I mean, this economy is nothing like what it was like five years ago, not to mention 15 or 20 years ago.

And it isn't just a different economy. It's changing faster than ever. You
know, it took the telephone 75 years to reach 100 million users. It took Candy
Crush one year to reach some 100 million users. 

So the world is changing faster than ever, and it is disruptive. Number one,
we are in a global competition now, and several of the candidates have said
that. There are now dozens of developed economies on this planet that we have
to compete with. And we lose that competition because we have the highest
business tax rate in the industrialized world, because we have regulations
that continue to grow by the billions every single week, because we have a
crazy health care law that discourages companies from hiring people, but
because we're not fully utilizing our energy resources, that if we did, it
would bring back all kinds of growth, especially in manufacturing, and because
we have an outdated higher education system.

Our higher education system is completely outdated. It is too expensive, too
hard to access, and it doesn't teach 21st century skills. If we do what needs
to be done — tax reform, regulatory reform, fully utilize our energy
resources, repeal and replace Obamacare, and modernize higher education, then
we can grasp the potential and the promise of this new economy. And we won't
just save the American dream. We will expand it to reach more people and
change more lives than ever before. And then truly this new century can be a
new American century. 


 The most important job I'm ever going to have, the most important job anyone in this room will ever have, is the job of being a parent. Not the job of being president, or the job of being a senator, or the job of being a congressman.

The most important job any of us will ever do is the job of being a president
(sic), because the most important institution in society is the family. If the
family breaks down, society breaks down.

You can't have a strong nation without strong values, and no one is born with
strong values. They have to be taught to you in strong families and reinforced
in you in strong communities.

And so when we set out to do tax reform, we endeavor to have a pro-family tax
code, and we endeavor to do it because we know how difficult it is for
families in the 21st century to afford the cost of living.

It is expensive to raise children in the 21st century, and families that are
raising children are raising the future taxpayers of the United States, and
everything costs more. In 35 out of 50 states, child care costs more than
college.

There are millions of people watching this broadcast tonight that understand
exactly what I'm talking about. They don't know how they're going to make that
payment every month, and if they can't make it, they can't work, because
someone needs to watch their kids during the day. They don't know how they're
going to save for their kids' future, to go to college.

And so, yes, I have a child tax credit increase, and I'm proud of it. I am
proud that I have a pro-family tax code, because the pro- family tax plan I
have will strengthen the most important institution in the — in the country,
the family.


 Now I get my 60 seconds to respond. He's talking about my tax plan.


 So let me begin with this. I actually believe — first of all, this is their money. They do pay. It is refundable, not just against the taxes they pay to the government, but also the — on their federal income tax, it's refundable against the payroll tax.

Everyone pays payroll tax. This is their money. This is not our money. And
here's what I don't understand — if you invest that money in a piece of
equipment, if you invest that money in a business, you get to write it off
your taxes.

But if you invest it in your children, in the future of America and
strengthening your family, we're not going to recognize that in our tax code?
The family is the most important institution in society. And, yes...


 ... I do want to rebuild the American military.


 I know that Rand is a committed isolationist. I'm not. I believe the world is a stronger and a better place, when the United States is the strongest military power in the world.


 Because... 


 ...are you talking about the military, Rand?


 We can't even have an economy if we're not safe. There are radical jihadist in the Middle East beheading people and crucifying Christians. A radical Shia cleric in Iran trying to get a nuclear weapon, the Chinese taking over the South China Sea...  ...Yes, I believe the world is a safer — no, no, I don't believe, I know that the world is a safer place when America is the strongest military power in the world.  


 You know, if I may respond...


 I need to add a couple of points to this. The first is, I've never met Vladimir Putin, but I know enough about him to know he is a gangster. He is basically an organized crime figure that runs a country, controls a $2 trillion economy. And is using to build up his military in a rapid way despite the fact his economy is a disaster.

He understands only geopolitical strength. And every time he has acted
anywhere in the world, whether it's in Ukraine or Georgia before that, or now
in the Middle East, it's because he is trusting in weakness.

His calculation in the Middle East is that he has seen what this president has
done, which is nothing, the president has no strategy, our allies in the
region do not trust us. For goodness sake, there is only one pro-American free
enterprise democracy in the Middle East, it is the state of Israel.

And we have a president that treats the prime minister of Israel with less
respect than what he gives the ayatollah in Iran. And so our allies in the
region don't trust us. 

Vladimir Putin is exploiting that weakness, for purposes of edging the
Americans out as the most important geopolitical power broker in the region.
And we do have a vested interest. And here's why.

Because all those radical terrorist groups that, by the way, are not just in
Syria and in Iraq, ISIS is now in Libya. They are a significant presence in
Libya, and in Afghanistan, and a growing presence in Pakistan.

Soon they will be in Turkey. They will try Jordan. They will try Saudi Arabia.
They are coming to us. They recruit Americans using social media. And they
don't hate us simply because we support Israel. They hate us because of our
values. They hate us because our girls go to school. They hate us because
women drive in the United States.

Either they win or we win, and we had better take this risk seriously, it is
not going away on its own. 


 Can I just add what — he's right on point there. Do you know why these banks are so big? The government made them big. The government made them big by adding thousands and thousands of pages of regulations. So the big banks, they have an army of lawyers, they have an army of compliance officers. They can deal with all these things. The small banks, like Governor Bush was saying, they can't deal with all these regulations. They can't deal with all — they cannot hire the fanciest law firm in Washington or the best lobbying firm to deal with all these regulations. And so the result is, the big banks get bigger, the small banks struggle to lend or even exist, and the result is what you have today.

And in Dodd-Frank, you have actually codified too big to fail. We have
actually created a category of systemically important institutions, and these
banks go around bragging about it. You know what they say to people with a
wink and a nod? We are so big, we are so important that if we get in trouble,
the government has to bail us out. This is an outrage. We need to repeal Dodd-
Frank as soon as possible. 


 Well, that's a great question, and let me begin by answering it. 

This election is about the future, about what kind of country this nation is
gonna be in the 21st century. This next (ph) election is actually a
generational choice. A choice about what kind of nation we will be in the 21st
century.

For over 2.5 centuries, America's been a special country, the one place on
earth where anyone from anywhere can achieve anything, a nation that's been a
force for good on this planet.

But now, a growing number of Americans feel out of place in their own country.
We have a society that stigmatizes those that hold cultural values that are
traditional.

We have a society where people — millions of people — are living paycheck to
paycheck. They're working as hard as they ever have, but they're living
paycheck to paycheck because the economy has changed underneath their feet.

We have young Americans who owe thousands of dollars in student loans for a
degree that doesn't lead to a job. For the first time in 35 years, we have
more businesses dying than starting, and around the world, every day brings
news of a new humiliation for America — many the direct response — direct
consequence of decisions made when Hillary Clinton was the secretary of the —
of state.

And so here's the truth: this election is about the future, and the Democratic
Party, and the political left has no ideas about the future. All their ideas
are the same, tired ideas of the past. More government, more spending. For
every issue for America, their answer is a new tax on someone, and a new
government program. This nation is going to turn the page, and that's what
this election should be about, and, as I said at the first debate... [_bell
ringing_] ...If I am our nominee, they will be the party of the past, we will
be the party of the 21st century. 


 Ours — the story of America is an extraordinary story. It is the story of a nation that for over two centuries each generation has left the next better off than themselves. But now, because Washington is out of touch, for the fault of both political parties, for the first time in our history, that is in doubt.

And that is what this election must be about, because if the next four years
are anything like the last eight years, our children will be the first
Americans ever left worse off by their parents. This election is about making
a different choice, about applying our principles of limited government and
free enterprise to the unique issues of our time. And if we do, we will not
just save the American dream. We will expand it to reach more people and
change more lives than ever before. And the 21st century can be a new American
century.

So tonight, I ask you for your vote and I ask you to join us at my website,
marcorubio.com. 


 Thank you Wolf.

It's really amazing to be back in Las Vegas. I spent six years as a child
growing not far from where we stand tonight. I use to sit on the porch of our
home and listen to my grandfather tell stories as he smoked one of three daily
cigars.

One of the things my grandfather instilled in me, was that I was really
blessed because I was a citizen of the greatest country in the history of our
mankind. But there have always been people in American politics that wanted
America to be more like the rest of the world. And In 2008, one of them was
elected president of this country and the result has been a disaster.

Today you have millions of Americans that feel left out and out of place in
their own country, struggling to live paycheck to paycheck, called bigots
because they hold on to traditional values.

And around the world, America's influence has declined while this president
has destroyed our military, our allies no longer trust us, and our adversaries
no longer respect us. And that is why this election is so important.

That is why I'm running for president. And that's why I'm going to ask you for
your vote tonight. If you elect me president, we will have a president that
believes America is the greatest country in the world and we will have a
president that acts like it. 


 Well, I understand why they feel that way, because this president hasn't kept us safe. The problem is we had an attack in San Bernardino. And we were paying attention to the most important issue we have faced in a decade since 9/11, and then all the talk was about this proposal, which isn't going to happen.

But this is what's important to do is we must deal frontally with this threat
of radical Islamists, especially from ISIS. This is the most sophisticated
terror group that has ever threatened the world or the United States of
America. They are actively recruiting Americans. The attacker in San
Bernardino was an American citizen, born and raised in this country. He was a
health inspector; had a newborn child and left all that behind to kill 14
people.

We also understand that this is a group that's growing in its governance of
territory. It's not just Iraq and Syria. They are now a predominant group in
Libya. They are beginning to pop up in Afghanistan. They are increasingly
involved now in attacks in Yemen. They have Jordan in their sights.

This group needs to be confronted with serious proposals. And this is a very
significant threat we face. And the president has left us unsafe. He spoke the
other night to the American people to reassure us. I wish he hadn't spoken at
all. He made things worse. Because what he basically said was we are going to
keep doing what we're doing now, and what we are doing now is not working.



 He is and so are those that voted for it. There were some that voted for it because they wanted to keep it alive and they were afraid the whole program would expire.

Here's the world we live in. This is a radical jihadist group that is
increasingly sophisticated in its ability, for example, to radicalize American
citizens, in its inability to exploit loopholes in our legal immigration
system, in its ability to capture and hold territory in the Middle East, as I
outlined earlier, in multiple countries.

This is not just the most capable, it is the most sophisticated terror threat
we have ever faced. We are now at a time when we need more tools, not less
tools. And that took we lost, the metadata program, was a valuable tool that
we no longer have at our disposal.


 Dana, may I interject here?


 Let me be very careful when answering this, because I don't think national television in front of 15 million people is the place to discuss classified information. So let me just be very clear. There is nothing that we are allowed to do under this bill that we could not do before.

This bill did, however, take away a valuable tool that allowed the National
Security Agency and other law — and other intelligence agencies to quickly and
rapidly access phone records and match them up with other phone records to see
who terrorists have been calling. Because I promise you, the next time there
is attack on — an attack on this country, the first thing people are going to
want to know is, why didn't we know about it and why didn't we stop it? And
the answer better not be because we didn't have access to records or
information that would have allowed us to identify these killers before they
attacked.

 


 I want to thank Rand for another 30 seconds, because, number one, what he's pointing to is a bill last week that — amendment that he voted for that only 10 people voted for. You know why? Because it's not focused on terrorists. It would have banned anyone from coming here. Someone from Taiwan would not have been able to come here as a tourist.

Number two, this program, this metadata program is actually more strict than
what a regular law enforcement agency has now. If a regular law enforcement
agency wants your phone records, all they have to do is issue a subpoena. But
now the intelligence agency is not able to quickly gather records and look at
them to see who these terrorists are calling. And the terrorists that attacked
us in San Bernardino was an American citizen, born and raised in this country.
And I bet you we wish we would have had access to five years of his records so
we could see who he was working with...


 Do I get another 30 seconds? He mentioned me.


 Well, let me begin by saying that we have to understand who ISIS is. ISIS is a radical Sunni group. They cannot just be defeated through air strikes. Air strikes are a key component of defeating them, but they must be defeated on the ground by a ground force. And that ground force must be primarily made up of Sunni Arabs themselves, Sunni Arabs that reject them ideologically and confront them militarily.

We will have to embed additional American special operators alongside them to
help them with training, to help them conduct special missions, and to help
improve the air strikes. The air strikes are important, but we need to have an
air force capable of it. And because of the budget cuts we are facing in this
country, we are going to be left with the oldest and the smallest Air Force we
have ever had. We have to reverse those cuts, in addition to the cuts to our
Navy and in addition to the cuts to our Army, as well.

And beyond that, I would say we must win the information war against ISIS.
Every war we have ever been involved in has had a propaganda informational
aspect to it. ISIS is winning the propaganda war. They are recruiting people,
including Americans, to join them, with the promise that they are joining this
great apocalyptic movement that is going to defeat the West. We have to show
what life is really like in ISIS territory, and we have to show them why ISIS
is not invincible, by going out and conducting these attacks and publicizing
them to those who they recruit.


 That is accurate. Three times he voted against the Defense Authorization Act, which is a bill that funds the troops. It also, by the way, funds the Iron Dome and other important programs. And I have to assume that if you vote against it in the Senate, you would also veto it as president.

He has also supported, by the way, a budget that is called the containment
budget. And it is a budget that would radically reduce the amount of money we
spend on our military. You can't carpet bomb ISIS if you don't have planes and
bombs to attack them with. And if we continue those cuts that we're doing now,
not to mention additional cuts, we are going to be left with the oldest and
the smallest Air Force this country has ever had, and that leaves us less
safe.


 Yes, let me — three points of distinction. The first is, if you're an American citizen and you decide to join up with ISIS, we're not going to read you your Miranda rights. You're going to be treated as an enemy combatant, a member of an army attacking this country. 

Number two, we do need our defense capabilities. It is a fact that the cuts we
are facing today and the cuts that Senator Cruz would have supported would
leave us with an even smaller Air Force and a smaller Navy than the one we are
going to be left with.

And the final point that I would make is Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama's
strategy is to lead from behind. It sounds like what he is outlining is not to
lead at all. We cannot continue to outsource foreign policy. We must lead. We
are the most powerful nation in the world. We need to begin to act like it,
again. 


 Well, they most certainly will have to be worked on to provide more than what they are doing now. There's no doubt about it. And there's one — one major reason why they have not been willing to be a broader part of the coalition, and that is they have lost complete trust and confidence in this president. This president cut a deal with their moral enemy, the Shia, in Iran. And this is the reason why they no longer trust this president and are willing to work alongside them.

But they have as much invested in this as we do. In fact, more so, for it is
the king of Saudi Arabia they want to behead first. It's the king of Jordan
that they want to dethrone. It's the — they want to go into Egypt the way
they've already gone into Libya.

And on another point that we need to talk about, Assad is one of the main
reasons why ISIS even exists to begin with. Assad is a puppet of Iran. And he
has been so brutal toward the Sunni within Syria that he created the space
that led to the people of Syria themselves to stand up and try to overthrow
him. That led to the chaos which allowed ISIS to come in and take advantage of
that situation and grow more powerful.

And the fact that this president led from behind meant there were no
alternative groups on the ground to be empowered, leaving ISIS with the prime
operating space they needed to become the force they have now become.




 To begin with, Moammar Gadhafi and the revolt against Gadhafi was not started by the United States. It was started by the Libyan people. And the reason why I argued we needed to get involved is because he was going to go one way or the other. And my argument then was proven true, and that is, the longer that civil war took, the more militias would be formed and the more unstable the country would be after the fact.

As far as Moammar Gadhafi is concerned, by the way, Moammar Gadhafi is the man
that killed those Americans over Lockerbie, Scotland. Moammar Gadhafi is also
the man that bombed that cafe in Berlin and killed those Marines. And you want
to know why Moammar Gadhafi started cooperating on his nuclear program?
Because we got rid of Saddam Hussein. And so he got scared that he would be
next, and that's why he started cooperating.

Look, we will have to work around the world with less than ideal governments.
The government in Saudi Arabia is not a democracy, but we will have to work
with them. The government in Jordan is not perfect, but we will have to work
with them. But anti-American dictators like Assad, who help Hezbollah, who
helped get those IEDs into Iraq, if they go, I will not shed a tear.


 Yeah. Immigration is not an issue that I read about in the newspaper or watch a documentary on PBS or CNN. It's an issues I've lived around my whole life. My family are immigrants. My wife's family are immigrants. All of my neighbors are immigrants.

I see every aspect of this problem. The good, the bad, and the ugly. And
here's what we learned in 2013. The American people don't trust the Federal
Government to enforce our immigration laws, and we will not be able to do
anything on immigration until we first prove to the American people that
illegal immigration is under control. And we can do that. We know what it
takes to do that.

It takes at least 20,000 more additional border agents. It takes completing
those 700 miles of fencing. It takes a mandatory e-verify system and a
mandatory entry/exit tracking system to prevent overstays. After we have done
that, the second thing we have to do is reform and modernize the legal
immigration system. And after we have done those two things, I think the
American people are gonna be reasonable with what do you do with someone who
has been in this country for 10 or 12 years who hasn't otherwise violated our
laws — because if they're a criminal they can't stay. They'll have to undergo
a background check, pay a fine, start paying taxes. And ultimately, they'll
given a work permit and that's all they're gonna be allowed to have for at
least 10 years. But you can't get to that third step until you have done the
other two things, and that was the lesson we learned in 2013. There is no
trust that the Federal Government will enforce the law. They will not support
you until you see it done first.


 But I've answered that question repeatedly. I am personally open — after all that has happened and after ten years in that probationary status where all they have is a permit, I personally am open to allowing people to apply for a green card.

That may not be a majority position in my party, but that's down the road. You
can't even begin that process until you prove to people — not just pass a law
that says you're gonna bring illegal immigration under control. You're gonna
have to do it and prove to people that it's working.

And that was the lesson of 2013. And it's more true today, than it was then.
After a migratory crisis on the border with minors coming over that you're
seeing start up again now, after all these executive orders the President has
issued. More than ever we need to...


 ... prove to people that illegal immigration is under control.


 Yeah, a couple points. In 2013 we had never faced a crisis like the Syrian refugee crisis now. Up until that point, a refugee meant someone fleeing oppression, fleeing Communism like it is in my community.

As far as Ted's record, I'm always puzzled by his attack on this issue. Ted,
you support legalizing people who are in this country illegally. Ted Cruz
supported a 500-percent increase in the number of H-1 visas, the guest workers
that are allowed into this country, and Ted supports doubling the number of
green cards.

So I think what's important for us to understand and there is a way forward on
this issue that we an bring our country together on. And while I'm president I
will do it. And it will begin by bringing illegal immigration under control
and proving to the American people.


 No, no, give him time.


 Ted, do you...


 Did Ted Cruz fight to support legalizing people that are in this country illegally?


 Does Ted Cruz rule out ever legalizing people that are in this country now?


 Would you rule it out?


 Well, he's just admitted — as he's just admitted, the reason why those refugees were allowed in was because they messed up in how they used the actual database. They should have know. They didn't because they didn't run the actual law as it exists now. It didn't work well.

As far as the refugees are concerned, it's not that America doesn't want to
accept refugees, Wolf. It's that we may not be able to, because this is an
issue we have to be 100 percent right on. If we allow 9,999 Syrian refugees
into the United States, and all of them are good people, but we allow one
person in who's an ISIS killer — we just get one person wrong, we've got a
serious problem.

And there is not a single person in the national defense apparatus of this
country that can guarantee you are going to be 100 percent right. And that's
why as president, I'll take this very seriously.


 I do. First, let's explain to people at home who the triad — what the triad is. Maybe a lot of people haven't heard that terminology before. The triad is our ability of the United States to conduct nuclear attacks using airplanes, using missiles launched from silos or from the ground, and also from our nuclear subs' ability to attack. And it's important — all three of them are critical. It gives us the ability at deterrence.

Now, some have become more critical than others; for example, the submarines.
And that's the Ohio Class submarine that needs to be modernized. The air
component also needs to be modernized. The B-52, as someone earlier pointed
out, is an outdated model that was flown by the grandparents of people that
are flying it now. And we need a serious modernization program as well on our
silo-launched missiles. All three are critical for the defense of the country.


 Thank you. As we near the end of this year, we enter one of the most important elections in a generation. For what's at stake in this election is not simply what party's going to be in charge. But our very identity as a people and as a nation. For over 200 years this has been a special country. A unique place where anyone from anywhere can achieve anything. But now millions of Americans feel like they're being left behind. Insecure in their future and unsafe in the face of terrorism. This election is about electing a president that will restore our economic vibrancy so that the American dream can expand to reach more people and change more lives than ever before. And rebuild our Military and our intelligence programs so that we can remain the strongest nation on earth. Tonight I ask you for your vote.

If you do this, we will rebuild this country, and together we will usher in a
new American century — the greatest era in the history of this great land.


 Yeah, I would go, first of all, one step further in this description of Hillary Clinton. She wouldn't just be a disaster, Hillary Clinton is disqualified from being commander in chief of the United States. 

Someone who cannot handle intelligence information appropriately cannot be
commander in chief and someone who lies to the families of those four victims
in Benghazi can never be president of the United States. Ever. 

On the issue of Barack Obama, Barack Obama does not believe that America is a
great global power. Barack Obama believes that America is a arrogant global
power that needs to be cut down to size. And that's how you get a foreign
policy where we cut deals with our enemies like Iran and we betray our allies
like Israel and we gut our military and we go around the world like he has
done on 10 separate occasions and apologized for America.

He doesn't understand the threat in ISIS. He consistently underestimates it
but I do not. There is a war against ISIS, not just against ISIS but against
radical jihadists terrorists, and it is a war that they win or we win.

When I'm president of the United States, we are going to win this war on ISIS.
The most powerful intelligence agency in the world is going to tell us where
we are, the most powerful military in the world is going to destroy them. And
if we capture any of them alive, they are getting a one-way ticket to
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and we are going to find out everything they know.



 Let me . I was invoked in that question, so let me just say — in that answer — let me say, the real question here, I hate to interrupt this episode of Court TV. 

But the real — but I think we have to get back to what this election has to be
about. OK? Listen, we — this is the greatest country in the history of
mankind. But in 2008, we elected a president that didn't want to fix America.
He wants to change America. We elected a president that doesn't believe in the
Constitution. He undermines it. We elected a president that is weakening
America on the global stage. We elected a president that doesn't believe in
the free enterprise system.

This election has to be about reversing all of that damage. That's why I'm
running for office because when I become president of the United States, on my
first day in office we are going to repeal every single one of his
unconstitutional executive orders. When I'm president of the United States we
are getting rid of Obamacare and we are rebuilding our military. And when I'm
president, we're not just going to have a president that gives a State of the
Union and says America is the greatest country in the world. When I'm
president, we're going to have a president that acts like it.


 You know, as I said already twice in this , we have a very serious problem in this country.  We have a president of the United States that is undermining this country's security and expanding the role of... 


 Well, I am going to answer your question, Neil. He is — this president is undermining the constitutional basis of this government. This president is undermining our military. He is undermining our standing in the world. I like Chris Christie, but we can not afford to have a president of the United States that supports Common Core.  

We can not afford to have a president of the United States that supports gun
control. This president, this president is more interested in funding — less
interested in funding the military, than he is in funding planned — he's more
interested in funding Planned Parenthood than he is in funding the military.

Chris Christie wrote a check to Planned Parenthood. All I'm saying is our next
president has to be someone that undoes the damage Barack Obama has done to
this country. It can not be someone that agrees with his agenda.

Because the damage he has done to America is extraordinary. Let me tell you,
if we don't get this election right, there may be no turning back for America.
We're on the verge of being the first generation of Americans that leave our
children worse off than ourselves.

So I just truly, with all my heart belief, I like everybody on the stage. No
one is a socialist. No one here is under FBI investigation. So we have a good
group of people.


 Our next president...


 Unfortunately, Governor Christie has endorsed many of the ideas that Barack Obama supports, whether it is Common Core or gun control or the appointment of Sonia Sotomayor or the donation he made to Planned Parenthood. Our next president, and our Republican nominee can not be someone who supports those positions.


 That sounds like people are afraid the president's going to take their guns away. 

Look, the Second Amendment is not an option. It is not a suggestion. It is a
constitutional right of every American to be able to protect themselves and
their families. I am convinced that if this president could confiscate every
gun in America, he would. I am convinced that this president, if he could get
rid of the Second Amendment, he would. I am convinced because I see how he
works with his attorney general, not to defend the Second Amendment, but to
figure out ways to undermine it.

I have seen him appoint people to our courts not to defend the Second
Amendment, but to figure out ways to undermine it.

Here's my second problem. None of these instances that the president points to
as the reason why he's doing these things would have been preventive. You know
why? Because criminals don't buy their guns from a gun show. They don't buy
their guns from a collector. And they don't buy their guns from a gun store.
They get — they steal them. They get them on the black market.

And let me tell you, ISIS and terrorists do not get their guns from a gun
show. These...... his answer — you name it. If
there's an act of violence in America, his immediate answer before he even
knows the facts is gun control. Here's a fact. We are in a war against ISIS.
They are trying to attack us here in America. They attacked us in Philadelphia
last week. They attacked us in San Bernardino two weeks ago. And the last line
standing between them and our families might be us and a gun.

When I'm president of the United States, we are defending the Second
Amendment, not undermining it the way Barack Obama does. 


 About every two weeks, he holds a press conference talking about how he can't wait to restrict people's access to guns. He has never defended......I'll give you a fact. Well, let me tell you this. Do you remember when he ran for president of the United States, and he was a candidate, and he went and said, "These Americans with traditional values, they are bitter people, and they cling to their guns and to their religion." That tells you right away where he was headed on all of this. 

This president every chance he has ever gotten has tried to undermine the
Second Amendment. 

He doesn't meet — here's the difference. When he meets with the attorney
general in the White House, it's not "how can we protect the Second Amendment
rights of Americans." It's "give me options on how I can make it harder for
law-abiding people to buy guns." That will never happen when I am president of
the United States. 


 Well, first of all, let's understand why we are even having this  and why Donald tapped in to some of that anger that's out there about this whole issue. Because this president has consistently underestimated the threat of ISIS.

If you listen to the State of the Union the other night, he described them as
a bunch of guys with long beards on the back of a pickup truck. They are much
more than that. This is a group of people that enslaves women and sells them,
sells them as brides.

This is a group of people that burns people in cages, that is conducting
genocide against Christians and Yazidis and others in the region. This is not
some small scale group.

They are radicalizing people in the United States, they are conducting attacks
around the world. So you know what needs to happen, it's a very simple
equation, and it's going to happen when I'm president. If we do not know who
you are, and we do not know why you are coming when I am president, you are
not getting into the United States of America. 


 But on this point, if I may add something on this point. We are all frustrated with what China is doing. I think we need to be very careful with tariffs, and here's why.

China doesn't pay the tariff, the buyer pays the tariff. If you send a tie or
a shirt made in China into the United States and an American goes to buy it at
the store and there's a tariff on it, it gets passed on in the price to price
to the consumer.

So I think the better approach, the best thing we can do to protect ourselves
against China economically is to make our economy stronger, which means
reversing course from all the damage Barack Obama is doing to this economy.

It begins with tax reform. Let's not have the most expensive business tax rate
in the world. Let's allow companies to immediately expense. 

It continues with regulatory reform. Regulations in this country are out of
control, especially the Employment Prevention Agency, the EPA, and all of the
rules they continue to impose on our economy and hurting us.

How about Obamacare, a certified job killer? It needs to be repealed and
replaced. And we need to bring our debt under control, make our economy
stronger. That is the way to deal with China at the end of the day.


 Well, first let me address the tax issue because it's related to the entitlement issue and I want to thank you for holding a substantive debates where we can have debates about these key issues on taxes.  

Here is the one thing I'm not going to do. I'm not going to have something
that Ted described in his tax plan. It's called the value added tax. And it's
a tax you find in many companies in Europe.

Where basically, businesses now will have to pay a tax, both on the money they
make, but they also have to pay taxes on the money that they pay their
employees.

And that's why they have it in Europe, because it is a way to blindfolded the
people, that's what Ronald Reagan said. Ronald Regan opposed the value tax
because he said it was a way to blindfold the people, so the true cost of
government was not there there for them.

Now, you can support one now that's very low. But what is to prevent a future
liberal president or a liberal Congress from coming back and not just raising
the income tax, but also raising that VAT tax, and that vat tax is really bad
for seniors. Because seniors, if they are retired, are no longer earning an
income from a job. And therefore, they don't get the income tax break, but
their prices are going to be higher, because the vat tax is embedded in both
the prices that business that are charging and in the wages they pay their
employees.

When I am president of the United States, I'm going to side with Ronald Regan
on this and not Nancy Pelosi and we are not having a vat tax. 


 But that's not an accurate description of the plan. Because, first of all, you may rename the IRS but you are not going to abolishes the IRS, because there has to be some agency that's going to collect your vat tax. Someone's going to be collecting this tax.

In fact, Ronald Reagan's treasury, when Ronald Reagan's treasury looked at the
vat tax, you know what they found? That they were going to have to hire 20,000
new IRS agencies to collect it.

The second point, it does not eliminate the corporate tax or the payroll tax.
Businesses will now have to pay 16 percent on the money they make. They will
also have to pay 16 percent on the money they pay their employees.

So there are people watching tonight in business. If you are now hit on a 60
percent tax on both your income and on the wages you pay your employees, where
are you going to get that money from? You're going to get it by paying your
employees less and charging your customers more, that is a tax, the difference
is, you don't see it on the bill.

And that's why Ronald Reagan said that it was a blindfold. You blindfold the
American people so that they cannot see the true cost of government. Now 16
percent is what the rate Ted wants it at. But what happens if, God forbid, the
next Barack Obama takes over, and the next Nancy Pelosi, and the next Harry
Reid......and they decide, we're going to raise it to 30
percent, plus we're going to raise the income tax to 30 percent. Now, you've
got Europe.




 If you'll answer the  core question.


 Well, first of all, this is an issue that's been debated now for 30 years. And for 30 years, the issue of immigration has been about someone who's in this country, maybe they're here illegally, but they're looking for a job. This issue is not about that anymore.

First and foremost, this issue has to be now more than anything else about
keeping America safe. And here's why. There is a radical jihadist group that
is manipulating our immigration system. And not just green cards. They're
looking — they're recruiting people that enter this country as doctors and
engineers and even fiances. They understand the vulnerabilities we have on the
southern border.

They're looking — they're looking to manipulate our — the visa waiver
countries to get people into the United States. So our number one priority
must now become ensuring that ISIS cannot get killers into the United States.
So whether it's green cards or any other form of entry into America, when I'm
president if we do not know who you are or why you are coming, you are not
going to get into the United States of America.


 The issue is a dramatically different issue than it was 24 months ago. Twenty-four months ago, 36 months ago, you did not have a group of radical crazies named ISIS who were burning people in cages and recruiting people to enter our country legally. They have a sophisticated understanding of our legal immigration system and we now have an obligation to ensure that they are not able to use that system against us.

The entire system of legal immigration must now be reexamined for security
first and foremost, with an eye on ISIS. Because they're recruiting people to
enter this country as engineers, posing as doctors, posing as refugees. We
know this for a fact. They've contacted the trafficking networks in the
Western Hemisphere to get people in through the southern border. And they got
a killer in San Bernardino in posing as a fiance.

This issue now has to be about stopping ISIS entering the United States, and
when I'm president we will.


 Maria, let me clear something up here. This is an interesting point when you talk about immigration. Ted Cruz, you used to say you supported doubling the number of green cards, now you say that you're against it. You used to support a 500 percent increase in the number of guest workers, now you say that you're against it. You used to support legalizing people that were here illegally, now you say you're against it. You used to say that you were in favor of birthright citizenship, now you say that you are against it. 

And by the way, it's not just on immigration, you used to support TPA, now you
say you're against it. I saw you on the Senate floor flip your vote on crop
insurance because they told you it would help you in Iowa, and last week, we
all saw you flip your vote on ethanol in Iowa for the same reason.


That is not consistent conservatism, that is political calculation. When I am
president, I will work consistently every single day to keep this country
safe, not call Edward Snowden, as you did, a great public servant. Edward
Snowden is a traitor. And if I am president and we get our hands on him, he is
standing trial for treason. 

And one more point, one more point. Every single time that there has been a
Defense bill in the Senate, three people team up to vote against it. Bernie
Sanders, Rand Paul and Ted Cruz. In fact, the only budget you have ever voted
for, Ted, in your entire time in the Senate is a budget from Rand Paul that
brags about how it cuts defense.

Here's the bottom line, and I'll close with this. If I'm president of the
United States and Congress tries to cut the military, I will veto that in a
millisecond. 


 No, it's your record.


 You know, 200 years ago, America was founded on this powerful principle that our rights don't come from government. Our rights come from God.

That's why we embraced free enterprise, and it made us the most prosperous
people in the history of the world. That's why we embraced individual liberty,
and we became the freest people ever, and the result was the American miracle.

But now as I travel the country, people say what I feel. This country is
changing. It feels different. We feel like we're being left behind and left
out.

And the reason is simple: because in 2008, we elected as president someone who
wasn't interested in fixing America. We elected someone as president who wants
to change America, who wants to make it more like the rest of the world.

And so he undermines the Constitution, and he undermines free enterprise by
expanding government, and he betrays our allies and cuts deals with our
enemies and guts our military. And that's why 2016 is a turning point in our
history. If we elect Hillary Clinton, the next four years will be worse than
the last eight, and our children will be the first Americans ever to inherit a
diminished country.

But if we elect the right person — if you elect me — we will turn this country
around, we will reclaim the American dream and this nation will be stronger
and greater than it has ever been. 


 Chris, let's begin by being clear what this campaign is about. It's not about Donald Trump. He's an entertaining guy. He's the greatest show on earth. This campaign is about the greatest country in the world and a president who has systematically destroyed many of the things that made America special.

You see, we usually elect presidents in America that want to change the things
that are wrong in America. Barack Obama wants to change America. Barack Obama
wants America to be more like the rest of the world. We don't want to be like
the rest of the world. We want to be the United States of America.


That is why Hillary Clinton cannot win this election. Hillary Clinton this
week said Barack Obama would make a great Supreme Court justice. The guy who
systematically and habitually violates the constitution on the Supreme Court?
I don't think so. If I'm our nominee, I will unite this party and we'll defeat
Hillary Clinton and we will turn this country around once and for all, after
seven years of the disaster that is Barack Obama. 


 I think, you know, Rand and I have some significant issues on policy, but I respect Rand. He believes everything he stands for. 

I do respect Rand.

But I want to be frank about what I stand for. I believe the world is a safer
and a better place when America is the strongest power in the world. And I
believe only with a strong America will we defeat this radical group, this
apocalyptic group called ISIS.

That's why when I'm president we are going to rebuild our intelligence
capabilities. And they're going to tell us where the terrorists are. And a
rebuilt U.S. military is going to destroy these terrorists.

And if we capture any of these ISIS killers alive, they are going to
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and we're going to find out everything they know,
because when I'm president, unlike Barack Obama, we will keep this country
safe. 


 Well, again, I mean, obviously, as already has been pointed out, the only budget that Ted has ever voted for is a budget that Rand Paul sponsored that brags about cutting defense spending. And I think that's a bad idea for the following reason.

ISIS is the most dangerous jihadist group in the history of mankind. ISIS is
now found in affiliates in over a dozen countries. ISIS is a group that burns
people alive in cages; that sells off little girls as brides. ISIS is a group
that wants to trigger an apocalyptic showdown in the city of Dabiq — not the
city of Dubuque; I mis-said — mis-said that wrong once  time —
the city of Dabiq in Syria. They want to trigger an apocalyptic Armageddon
showdown.

This group needs to be confronted and defeated. They are not going to go away
on their own. They're not going to turn into stockbrokers overnight or open up
a chain of car washes. They need to be defeated militarily, and that will take
overwhelming U.S. force.

Today, we are on pace to have the smallest Army since the end of World War II,
the smallest Navy in 100 years, the smallest Air Force in our history. You
cannot destroy ISIS with a military that's being diminished. When I'm
president, we are rebuilding the U.S. military because the world is a safer
and a better place when America is the strongest military in the world.




 ... First of all — Let me go first, and then you can please recognize Rand after.  

First of all...


 ... do I go — let me go first, and then you can please recognize Rand after. But...  ... first of all...


 ... first of all, I'm — don't worry, I'm not leaving the stage no matter what you ask me.


 And second of all...  ... and I think — you know, Governor — Jeb, you — the attack that — the authorization that Barack Obama asked for was not against ISIS. It was against Assad. And John Kerry described it as attacks that would be unbelievably small.

I don't think the United States should be engaged in symbolic military
activity. So it was not against ISIS, it was against — it was against Assad.

I think the United States military is operating under rules of engagement that
are too strict...  ...and that do not allow us to pursue
victory. When I'm president, that will change.




 Megyn, that's the problem. Radical Muslims and radical Islam is not just hate talk. It's hate action. They blow people up. Look what they did in San Bernardino.

Look at the attack they inspired in Philadelphia, that the White House still
refuses to link to terror, where a guy basically shot a police officer three
times.

He told the police, "I did it because I was inspired by ISIS," and to this
day, the White House still refuses to acknowledge it had anything to do with
terror.

Look, the threat we face from ISIS is unprecedented. There has never been a
jihadist group like this. They have affiliates in over a dozen countries now.

They are the best funded radical jihadist group in the history of the world,
and they have shown a sophisticated understanding of the laws of other
countries on how to insert fighters into places, and they are actively
plotting to attack us here at home and around the world.

We must keep America safe from this threat. And yes, when I am president of
the United States, if there is some place in this country where radical
jihadists are planning to attack the United States, we will go after them
wherever they are, and if we capture them alive, they are going to Guantanamo.



 Might I respond? 

The first thing — I don't know of anyone who's not in favor of fully vetting
people that are trying to come into this country, other than perhaps Barack
Obama and Hillary Clinton. I think we all support that. Rand's amendment was
not the right way to do it.

I do believe that people who are trying to come to the United States — this
country has a right to know who they are and why they are coming. And that's
why I've been clear, when I am the president of the United States of America,
we don't know who you are, and we don't know why you're trying to come to the
United States, you are not going to get in, because the radical threat that we
now face from ISIS is extraordinary and unprecedented...  ...
and when I'm president, we are keeping ISIS out of America.


 Well, Bret, first that's not entirely the story. At the time, the liberal governor of Florida, who claimed he was a Republican — his name was Charlie Crist — he wanted to impose cap-and-trade on Florida. And I opposed it. I was the first person out of the box that opposed him on it.

And then we saw that the leading candidates for president at the time, both
the Republican and the Democrats, all supported it. And what we said is, if
they're going to impose this on us, we better prepare to protect the state
from it. But I have never supported cap- and-trade and I never thought it was
a good idea. And I was clear about that at the time.

And I do not believe it's a good idea now. I do not believe that we have to
destroy our economy in order to protect our environment. And especially what
these programs are asking us to pass that will do nothing to help the
environment, but will be devastating for our economy.

When I am president of the United States of America, there will never be any
cap-and-trade in the United States. 


 Never support. Never have and never will support any effort to grant blanket legalization amnesty to folks who have entered, or stayed in this country illegally.






 First of all, earned path to citizenship is basically code for amnesty. It's what they call it. And, the reality of it is this, it is unfair to the people that have legally entered this country to create an alternative for individuals who entered illegally, and knowingly did so.






 You cannot grant amnesty. If the American people see us granting amnesty they will never again believe in legal immigration. They will never again support it, and that's wrong for our country, bad for our future.




 No, because if you look at the quote, and it's very specific. And, it says blanket amnesty, I do not support blanket amnesty...


 ... I do not support amnesty...


 ... No, I said I do not support blanket amnesty...


 ... It was...


 ... It absolutely has been, and at the time in the context of that was in 2009, and 2010, where the last effort for legalization was an effort done in the Senate. It was an effort led by several people that provided almost an instant path with very little obstacles moving forward.

What I've always said is that this issue does need to be solved. They've been
talking about this issue for 30 years, and nothing ever happens. And, I'm
going to tell you exactly how we're going to deal with it when I am president.

Number one, we're going to keep ISIS out of America. If we don't know who you
are, or why you're coming, you will not get into the United States.

Number two, we're going to enforce our immigration laws. I am the son and
grandson of immigrants. And I know that securing our borders is not anti-
immigrant and we will do it.

We'll hire 20,000 new border agents instead of 20,000 new IRS agents. We will
finish the 700 miles of fencing and walls our nation needs. We'll have
mandatory E-verify, a mandatory entry/exit tracking system and until all of
that is in place and all of that is working and we can prove to the people of
this country that illegal immigration is under control, nothing else is going
to happen.

We are not going to round up and deport 12 million people, but we're not going
to hand out citizenship cards, either. There will be a process. We will see
what the American people are willing to support. But it will not be
unconstitutional executive orders like the ones Barack Obama has forced on us.


 May I respond?


 It's interesting that Jeb mentions the book. That's the book where you changed your position on immigration because you used to support a path to citizenship.


 Well, but you changed the — in the book...


 You wrote a book where you changed your position from a path of citizenship to a path of legalization. And the bottom line is this, we are not going to be able to do anything on this issue until we first bring illegal immigration under control. The American people have been told for 30 years they're going to enforce the border, they're going to build a wall and it never gets built and it never happens.

It is very clear there will be no progress on this issue in any way, shape or
form, until you prove to the people of this country that illegal immigration
is under control. And when I'm president, we are going to bring it under
control once and for all after 30 years of talking about it.


 But Megyn...


 There's not going to be consensus on this issue until we enforce our immigration laws. That is abundantly clear. You're not going to be able to ram down the throat of the American people your approach. The only way we're are going to be able to move forward after two migratory crises with minor, after two unconstitutional executive orders, the only way forward on this issue is to first bring illegal immigration under control. And until that happens there's not going to be consensus on this issue.


 Yeah, but let me respond...


 ... no, I understand, but let me respond. I was mentioned on this — in this answer, and so I'm going to respond this way.

This is the lie that Ted's campaign is built on, and Rand touched upon it —
that he's the most conservative guy, and everyone else is a — you know,
everyone else is a rhino.

The truth is, Ted, throughout this campaign, you've been willing to say or do
anything in order to get votes. Ted, you worked for George W. Bush's
campaign... 

You — you — you helped design George W. Bush's — you helped design George W.
Bush's immigration policy. And then, when you got to the Senate, you did an
interview with CBS News — I wasn't even part of the video — where you said, on
the issue of people that are here illegally, "we can reach a compromise."

And then in the committee, you said, "I want to bring people out of the
shadows." 

Now you want to trump Trump on immigration. But you can't — we're not gonna
beat Hillary Clinton with someone who's willing to say or do anything to win
an election.


 And I think that's the false choice...  ... that's the — that's the false choice in this whole debate about immigration. Of course, we're going to be a nation of immigrants. By the way, no nation on earth is more generous than America is. Every single year close to a million people emigrate to the United States legally. There's no nation on earth that comes close to that number.

I think the only argument is are we a sovereign country, are we not allowed to
choose who comes in, when they come in and how they come in? And that's not
what's happening now. 


 I think the other problem is we have a legal immigration system that's outdated, it's primarily based on whether you have family members living here. In the 21st century, it has to be more of a merit-based system, and that is why our legal immigration system is in need of modernization. And we will always celebrate legal immigration like Dulce's great story.


 Well, I believe, and I know that if Iowa helps make me the Republican nominee, I will defeat Hillary Clinton. Hillary doesn't want to run against me, but I cannot wait to run against her. And I cannot wait to earn the opportunity to do it because she cannot be the president of the United States.

She wants to put Barack Obama on the Supreme Court of the United States of
America. She said that here in Iowa just two days ago. That would be a
disaster for this country.

So I hope and pray and cannot wait until this state and others give me an
opportunity to serve this party as its nominee because I will defeat Hillary
Clinton. 


 Well, let me be clear about one thing, there's only one savior and it's not me. It's Jesus Christ who came down to earth and died for our sins. 

And so — and I've always made that clear about that cover story.

As far as the polls are concerned, Iowa, on Monday night you're going to go to
a caucus site and you'll be the first Americans that vote in this election.
You will be the first Americans that get to answer the fundamental question,
what comes next for this country after seven disastrous years of Barack Obama?

And let me tell you what the answer better not be. It better not be Bernie
Sanders. Bernie Sanders is a socialist. I think Bernie Sanders is good
candidate for president of Sweden. 

We don't want to be Sweden. We want to be the United States of America.


And Hillary Clinton, Hillary Clinton is disqualified from being the commander-
in-chief of the United States. In fact, one of her first acts as president may
very well be to pardon herself because Hillary Clinton... 

Hillary Clinton stored classified information on her private server. And
Hillary Clinton lied to the families of those four brave Americans who lost
their life in Benghazi. And anyone who lies to the families of Americans who
have died in the service of this country can never be commander-in-chief of
the United States. 


 Yeah, I would encourage people to go on my website, marcorubio.com, and we'll put all the facts up there so people can see it for themselves. But you've just asked a very fundamental question about the role of faith in our country. And I think this is an important question. I think if you do not understand that our Judeo-Christian values are one of the reasons why America is such a special country, you don't understand our history. You see, why are we one of the most generous people in the world — no, the most generous people in the world? Why do Americans contribute millions of dollars to charity?

It is not because of the tax writeoff. It is because in this nation, we are
influenced by Judeo-Christian values that teach us to care for the less
fortunate, to reach out to the needy, to love our neighbor. This is what's
made our nation so special.

And you should hope that our next president is someone that is influence by
their faith. Because if your faith causes you to care for the less fortunate,
it is something you want to see in your public figures. And when I'm
president, I can tell you this, my faith will not just influence the way I'll
govern as president, it will influence the way I live my life.

Because in the end, my goal is not simply to live on this earth for 80 years,
but to live an eternity with my creator. And I will always allow my faith to
influence everything I do. 


 Well, let me first describe Iran because they're not just a normal nation state. And we have no quarrel with the Iranian people. But the Iranian leader, their supreme leader is a radical Shia cleric who has an apocalyptic vision of the future. He views himself not simply as the leader of Iran, but as the leader of all Muslims — all Shia Muslims on the planet. And they have a desire not simply to conquer the Middle East and to become the dominant power in that region, but ultimately to be able to hold America hostage.

That is why they're building an — right now, developing long- range missiles
capable of reaching the United States, and that is why there's going — they're
going to use those $100 billion to expand their conventional capabilities and
to one day buy or build a nuclear weapon.

We will — when I am president of the United States, on my first day in office,
we are canceling the deal with Iran, and nations will have to make a choice.
They can do business with Iran, or they can do business with America, and I am
very confident they're going to choose America before they choose the Iranian
economy.


 The bible commands us to let our light shine on the world. For over 200 years, America's light has been shining on the world and the world has never been the same again. But now, that light is dimming a little, after seven years of Barack Obama. And that's why Monday night, what will happen here in Iowa is so important.

I'm asking you for your vote. Caucus for me on Monday night because if I am
your nominee, I will unite this party and I will defeat Hillary Clinton and
when I'm president, America's light will shine again and the 21 century will
be a new American century. 


 Well, let me say, from protecting the people of Florida from imminent domain abuse, to bringing accountability to the V.A., to the Girls Count Act, to sanctioning groups, I'm proud of my service in the United States Senate and before that, in the Florida legislature.

I will say, if politics becomes and the presidency becomes about electing
people who have been Congress or in the Senate the longest, we should all
rally around Joe Biden. He's been around 1,000 years. He's passed hundreds of
bills and I don't think any of us believe Joe Biden should be president of the
United States.

And let's dispel once and for all with this fiction that Barack Obama doesn't
know what he's doing. He knows exactly what he's doing. Barack Obama is
undertaking a systematic effort to change this country, to make America more
like the rest of the world.

That's why he passed Obamacare and the stimulus and Dodd-Frank and the deal
with Iran. It is a systematic effort to change America. When I'm president of
the United States, we are going to re-embrace all the things that made America
the greatest nation in the world and we are going to leave our children with
what they deserve: the single greatest nation in the history of the world.


 If I may respond to that. 


 Well, I think the experience is not just what you did, but how it worked out. Under Chris Christie's governorship of New Jersey, they've been downgraded nine times in their credit rating. This country already has a debt problem, we don't need to add to it by electing someone who has experience at running up and destroying the credit rating of his state.

But I would add this. Let's dispel with this fiction that Barack Obama doesn't
know what he's doing. He knows exactly what he's doing. He is trying to change
this country. He wants America to become more like the rest of the world. We
don't want to be like the rest of the world, we want to be the United States
of America. And when I'm elected president, this will become once again, the
single greatest nation in the history of the world, not the disaster Barack
Obama has imposed upon us.


 Chris — Chris, your state got hit by a massive snowstorm two weeks ago. You didn't even want to go back. They had to shame you into going back. And then you stayed there for 36 hours and then he left and came back to campaign. Those are the facts.

Here's the bottom line. This notion that Barack Obama doesn't know what he's
doing is just not true. He knows exactly what he's doing.


 Well, that's the — that's the reason why this campaign is so important. Because I think this notion — I think this is an important point. We have to understand what we're going through here. We are not facing a president that doesn't know what he's doing. He knows what he is doing. That's why he's done the things he's done.

That's why we have a president that passed Obamacare and the stimulus. All
this damage that he's done to America is deliberate. This is a president
that's trying to redefine this country. That's why this election is truly a
referendum on our identity as a nation, as a people. Our future is at stake.

This election is not about the past. It is about what kind of country this is
going to be in the 21st century, and if we elect someone like Barack Obama, a
Hillary Clinton, a Bernie Sanders or anyone like that, our children are going
to be the first Americans to inherit a diminishes country. That will not
happen if I'm elected.


 Chris, you didn't want to go back. You didn't want to go back. 


 You didn't want to go back, Chris.


 Chris, everybody — you said you weren't going to go back. He told everyone he wasn't going to go back. They had to shame him into going back. And when he decided to go back, he criticized the young lady, saying, what am I supposed to do, go back with a mop and clean up the flooding?


 ... It's your record, it's not a talking point...


 But Martha, just — Martha, just to clarify on that point, because he's right, and one more thing to point — it is standard procedure of the United States to shoot down those missiles once launched if they pose a threat to civilians, land and ships.


 Well — no, I understand. And not — but — but I think it's important to note that it is — and Senator Cruz, I think, was alluding to this, as well — it is the standard procedure of the United States, if those missiles pose a threat to land, civilians, our allies or any of our assets, to shoot down that missile in mid-flight.

I understand your question was about a preemptive strike, but my point is that
there is in place now contingencies to avoid any sort of that strike from
going errant and destroying any — any assets of the United States, or
implicating or hurting any of our allies or any of our assets in the region.


 Yeah. I have a — I got mentioned, can I respond?


 Here's the broader point, as well, and then I think it touches on what Donald just mentioned. Barack Obama views America as this arrogant global power that needed to be cut down to size. OK?

This is a president that views this country as a country that's been too
powerful in the world and we create problems around the world.

For example, it's one of the reasons why he had betrayed Israel, because he
believes that if we create separation from Israel, it will help our relations
in the Islamic world. The same is happening in the Asia-Pacific region with
accommodations to North Korea. North Korean should be back on that list of
terrorist nations, as an example.

And Donald's absolutely right. China does have a lot of influence over North
Korea and he should be leveraging our relationship with the Chinese to ensure
that North Korea no longer has access to the resources that have allowed them
— a country that has no economy to develop long range missiles already capable
of reaching the west coast of the United States potentially.


 Here's the bottom line. We can't get that legislation passed. The American people will not support doing anything about people that are in this country illegally until the law is enforced first, and you prove it to them.

This has been abundantly clear. Every effort over the last ten years to do
those comprehensively has failed. And it has failed because the American
people have zero trust that the federal government will enforce our laws.

And that's why since then, I have said repeatedly, if you are serious about
immigration reform, then the key that unlocks the door to being able to do
that is not just to pass a law that says it is going to enforce the law, but
to actually do it. To hire the 20,000 new border agents, to finish the fencing
and walls, to put in place mandatory e-verify, to put in place an entry-exit
tracking system to prevent visa overstays.

And once that is in place and that's working, I believe the American people
will support a very reasonable, but responsible approach to people that have
been here a long time, who are not dangerous criminals, who pay taxes and pay
fines for what they did.

But until then, none of that is going to be possible.


 Well, the legislation passed, but it has no support. In essence, it couldn't pass in the House, it will never pass in the United States until we secure the border, and it is not the way we're going to do when I'm president.

When I'm president, we are going to enforce the law first, prove to people
that illegal immigration is under control. And then we'll see what the
American people are willing to support when it comes to people that are not
criminals, who have been in the this country for a long time and who otherwise
would like to stay.


 Leadership is ultimately about solving the problem. And the approach that was tried and has been tried now repeatedly over ten years to do this comprehensively, all at once in a massive piece of legislation has no chance of passage.

It is not leadership to continue to try something that has no chance of
happening. I want to make progress on this issue. It has been discussed now
for 30 years and nothing ever happens.

And I am telling you that the only way forward on this issue that has any
chance of happening, meaning gaining the support of the American people, you
cannot do this without the support of the American people, is an approach that
begins by proving that once and for all, illegal immigration is under control.


 Good evening.


 Well, I think conservatism is about three things and Donald touched on one of them, but it's about three things. The first is conservatism is about limited government, especially at the federal level. The federal government is a limited government, limited by the Constitution, which delineates its powers. If it's not in the Constitution, it does not belong to the federal government. It belongs to states, local communities and the private sector.

It's about free enterprise, which is an economic model that allows everyone to
rise without pulling anyone down. The reason why free enterprise is the
greatest economic model in the history of the world is because it's the only
economic model where you can make poor people richer without making rich
people poor.

And it's about a strong national defense. It's about believing, unlike Barack
Obama, that the world is a safer and a better place when America is the
strongest military and the strongest nation on this planet. That's
conservatism. 


 Now, see, I was mentioned by Governor...


 Yeah.


 OK, good, then I'll get to it . Here's the...


 Well, no, sorry. Let me respond to that question.


 Well, here's the response. I think anyone who believes that Barack Obama isn't doing what he's doing on purpose doesn't understand what we're dealing with here, OK? This is a president — this is a president who is trying to change this country. When he talked about change, he wasn't talking about dealing with our problems.

Obamacare was not an accident. The undermining of the Second Amendment is not
an accident. The gutting of our military is not an accident. The undermining
of America on the global stage is not an accident. Barack Obama is, indeed,
trying to redefine this country. We better understand what we're dealing with
here, because that's what Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders want to double
down on if they are elected.


 No. He talked about Barack Obama.


 Yeah.


 I don't know of any problem in America that's going to be fixed with a tax increase. We have an economy today, an economy today that is not creating jobs that pay enough.

And one of the reasons why is because we have one of the most expensive
business tax rates on the planet. Our combined business rate puts us among the
highest in the industrialized world. And then on top of that, we are the only
one that has a worldwide system of taxation, where an American company who
makes money abroad has to pay taxes where they made the money and then taxes a
second time when they bring it back.

The combination of these two things has stranded over $2 trillion, the
equivalent of the size of the Russian economy, $2 trillion of American
corporate money stranded overseas, combined with all of these inversions of
companies leaving us.

The solution to the problems we have today are not a tax increase. It is to
lower our taxes on both people and on companies, so we can make America
globally competitive again. 


 Well, first, we need to understand who they are. ISIS is not just a jihadist group, they're an apocalyptic group. They want to trigger a showdown in a city named Tibet between the west and themselves which they believe will trigger the arrival of their messianic figure.

And I'm not saying that's what's going to happen. The reason why it's
important to understand that is because these are not groups that are just
going to go away on their own. They are going to have to be defeated. And I
believe they need to be defeated on the ground, by a ground force, made up
primarily of Sunni Arabs.

It will take Sunni Arabs to reject them ideologically and defeat them
militarily. That will require a coalition of Iraqis and Syrians, that are also
Sunnis, but it will also require the cooperation of Jordanians, Egyptians. We
should ask more of the Saudis.

That will need to be backed up with more U.S. special operation forces
alongside them. And it will have to be backed up with increased air strikes.
And we are going to have to strike them, not just in Iraq and in Syria, but in
every other part of the world where they have now created hubs of operation.
They have affiliates in over a dozen countries across this planet. They have a
sophisticated network of radicalizing people here in the homeland and around
the world. 

But it all begins by taking away their their safe operating spaces with a
ground force that a U.S.-led coalition takes on. 


 Because they currently occupy Sunni cities and villages. Sunni cities and villages can only truly be liberated and held by Sunnis themselves. If they are held by Shias it will trigger sectarian violence. The Kurds are incredible fighters and they will liberate the Kurdish areas, but Kurds can not and do not want to liberate and hold Sunni villages and towns.

It will take Sunni fighters themselves in that region to take those villages
and cities, and then to hold them and avoid the sort of sectarian violence
that follows in the past.

And why that is important is because if Sunnis are not able to govern
themselves in these areas, you are going to have a successor group to ISIS.
ISIS is a successor group of Al Qaida. In fact, they broke away...[_bell
rings_]...from Al Qaida, because as horrible as Al Qaida is, ISIS thought Al
Qaida was not radical enough. This is who we're dealing with, and they have
more money than Al Qaida ever had.


 Well, the problem with the Sunni forces in the region is they don't trust this administration. This administration cut a deal with their mortal enemies, the Shia, in Iran. It poisoned the well with these countries. It makes it very difficult to cooperate with them as a result.

They also, by the way, understand what real U.S. air power looks like. They
saw the Iraq war. They saw, up close, also Afghanistan. They know what air
power looks like when the United States is committed to the cause. And they
see the airstrikes that are being conducted now, and they say to themselves,
that's not real commitment. We know what real commitment looks like.

The — the Jordanian king was in Washington three weeks ago. He told everyone
who would listen that they have begged for permission from the coalition to
target caravans. And the coalition — meaning U.S. leadership on the
ground......would not allow them to proceed with those
airstrikes.


 Well, when people talk about interrogating terrorists, they're acting like this is some sort of law enforcement function. Law enforcement is about gathering evidence to take someone to trial, and convict them. Anti-terrorism is about finding out information to prevent a future attack so the same tactics do not apply.

And, it is true, we should not be discussing in a wide spread way the exact
tactics that we're going to use because that allows terrorist to know to
practice how to evade us.

But, here's the bigger problem with all this, we're not interrogating anybody
right now. Guantanamo's being emptied by this president. We should be putting
people into Guantanamo, not emptying it out, and we shouldn't be releasing
these killers who are rejoining the battlefield against the United States.



 I think it's already happening. Look at the turnout in Iowa. A historic number of people came out and voted in those caucuses. There are saying the same thing is going to happen here in New Hampshire. Look at the rallies that every single person on this stage is having. Much higher numbers than you used to see in the past and here is why.

Because people are starting to understand, very clearly, that this election is
going to be a turning point. That 2016 is not just a choice between Republican
or Democrat. It is a referendum on our identity as a nation and as a people.

So here is what Hillary Clinton needs to understand. We're going to have our
primary, we're going to have our debates — which by the way, are twice as many
as the Democrats have been willing to have themselves. But we're going to
bring this party together and we are going to defeat Hillary Clinton, because
she is unqualified to be the president of the United States of America.

She put classified information on her computer because she thinks she's above
the law and anyone who lies to the families of people who have lost their
loved ones in the service of our country like she did in Benghazi, can never
be the commander-in-chief of the United States of America. 


 I would. But that's not — the issue — my problem with what he did is he continues to put out this fiction that there's widespread systematic discrimination against Muslim Americans.

First of all, let's recognize this. If you go to a national cemetery in this
country, you will see stars of Davids and crosses, but you see crescent moons.
There are brave men and women who happen to be Muslim Americans who are
serving this country in uniform and who have died in the service of this
country. And we recognize that and we honor that. But by the same token, we
face a very significant threat of home grown violent extremism.

We need to have strong, positive relationships in the Islamic communities in
this country so they will identify and report this activity, especially
mosques, for example, that are participating not just in hate speech, but
inciting violence and taking acts against us.

And I do believe it is important also to recognize, you want to talk about
religious discrimination in America. Well, I don't think Barack Obama is being
sued by any Islamic groups, but he is being sued by the Little Sisters of the
Poor. We are facing in this country Christian groups and groups that hold
traditional values who feel and in fact are being discriminated against by the
laws of this country that try to force them to vie to violate their
conscience. 


 First, let me say there are already women today serving in roles that are like combat. That, in fact, whose lives are in very serious danger, and so I have no problem whatsoever with people of either gender serving in combat so long as the minimum requirements necessary to do the job are not compromised. But, I support that, and obviously now that that is the case I do believe that Selective Service should be opened up for both men and women in case a Draft is ever instituted.

I think the more fundamental challenge we're now facing is what's happening to
the U.S. military — I've said this many times, and I think it's important to
start paying attention to this. Our Air Force is about to be the smallest it's
been in 100 years. I'm sorry, in our history. Our Army is set to be smaller
than it's been since the second World War, and our Navy is about to be the
smallest than it's been in 100 years.

I think we need to begin to refocus on rebuilding our military because every
time we have cut our military in the history of this country we have had to
come back later and rebuild it, and it costs more, and it's a lot more chaotic
and dangerous. When I'm president, we are rebuilding the U.S. military.



 Well, my brother's a veteran. We're very proud of him in our family. He served as a green beret in the 7th Special Forces from 1968 through 1971. And as part of his training, he jumped out of an airplane and he lost his two front teeth.

And for years, he's had to go to get these dental claims. And every times he
goes to get one of these dental claims filled, the V.A. asks him, "well, how
do we know you lost your teeth in the Army?" And he says, "well, it's the only
time I ever jumped out of a plane."  But he's had to fight through
this process, and I've watched it firsthand. That's why I'm proud that I
worked in a bipartisan way. We passed the V.A. Accountability bill that, for
the first time, allows us to fire — allows the V.A. secretary to fire someone
who's not doing a good job, who's a senior executive.

And the governor's right. They've only fired three people up to now. More
people will be fired if I'm president. But the portability part of it is
incredibly important.

Veterans should be able to take their V.A. benefits to any hospital or any
doctor they want to go to. When I am president of the United States, veterans
will be able to take their benefits to any hospital or doctor that they
choose. 


 Well, first of all, I don't believe that believing in traditional marriage the way I do makes you a bigot or a hater. It means that you believe that this institution that's been around for millenial is an important cornerstone of society. I respect people that believe differently. But I believe deeply, that marriage should be between one man and one woman. 

On the issue of life, to me, the issue of life is not a political issue. It's
a human rights issue and it's a difficult issue, because it puts in conflict
two competing rights. On the one hand is the right of a woman to choose what
to do with her body which is a real right.

And on the other hand is the right of an unborn human child to live. And
they're in conflict. And as a policy maker, I must choose which one of these
two sides takes precedence. And I have chosen to err on the side of life.

Here's what I find outrageous. There has been five Democratic debates. The
media has not asked them a single question on abortion and on abortion, the
Democrats are extremists. Why doesn't the media ask Hillary Clinton why she
believes that all abortion should be legal, even on the due date of that
unborn child.

Why don't they ask Hillary Clinton why she believe that partial- birth
abortion, which is a gruesome procedure that has been outlawed in this
country, she thinks that's a fundamental right. They are the
extremists......when it comes to the issue of abortion and I
can't wait to expose them in a general election. 


 I do support protection for the life of the mother because I'm pro-life. I just believe deeply that all human life is worthy of protection of our laws. If I'm president and there's a bill that's passed that saves lives but it has exceptions, I'll sign it.

But I do believe deeply that all human life is worthy of the protection of
laws. I've already said, for me, the issue of life is not a political issue
and I want to be frank. I would rather lose an election than be wrong on the
issue of life. 


 Well, I was going for Peyton Manning, but now I'm rooting for Carolina. 


 Thank you. You know, this week I had the great pleasure of having my kids join me on the campaign trail. I hadn't' seen them in a while, and it was great to have them alongside me, but the most important part of it is that it once again reminded me of what's at stake.

Here in New Hampshire in less than 72 hours, we are literally deciding what
kind of country we will be like when they are my age. What kind of country
they will be able to raise their families in. And, that's why I'm asking you
for your vote. You vote for me, and we will unite this party, we will grow the
conservative movement, we will defeat Hillary Clinton, and we will leave our
children what our parents left us. The single greatest nation in the history
of all mankind.

Thank you. 


 Well, let me first talk about Justice Scalia. His loss is tremendous, and obviously our hearts and prayers go out to his family. He will go down as one of the great justices in the history of this republic.

You talk about someone who defended consistently the original meaning of the
Constitution, who understood that the Constitution was not there to be
interpreted based on the fads of the moment, but it was there to be
interpreted according to its original meaning.

Justice Scalia understood that better than anyone in the history of this
republic. His dissent, for example, on the independent counsel case is a
brilliant piece of jurist work. And, of course, his dissent on Obergefell as
well.

No. 2, I do not believe the president should appoint someone. And it's not
unprecedented. In fact, it has been over 80 years since a lame duck president
has appointed a Supreme Court justice.

And it remind us of this, how important this election is. Someone on this
stage will get to choose the balance of the Supreme Court, and it will begin
by filling this vacancy that's there now.

And we need to put people on the bench that understand that the Constitution
is not a living and breathing document. It is to be interpreted as originally
meant.


 That's not accurate.


 No, I've never — there has been, for example, today, according to the changes Harry Reid made, appellate judges can now be appointed by a simple majority, but not Supreme Court justices.

And I think today you see the wisdom of why we don't want that to change.
Because if that were the case and we were not in charge of the Senate, Harry
Reid and Barack Obama would ram down our throat a liberal justice, like the
ones Barack Obama has imposed on us already.


 No. I think there are three major threats that you want to immediately get on top of. No. 1 is, what are we doing in the Asia-Pacific region, where both North Korea and China pose threats to the national security of the United States.

No. 2 is, what are we doing in the Middle East with the combination of the
Sunni-Shia conflict driven by the Shia arc that Iran is now trying to
establish in the Middle East, also the growing threat of ISIS.

And the third is rebuilding and reinvigorating NATO in the European theater,
particularly in Central Europe and in Eastern Europe, where Vladimir Putin is
now threatening the territory of multiple countries, already controls 20
percent of Georgia and a significant percentage of Ukraine.


 Well, let me tell you what has happened a couple of years ago. One of the hardest decisions you'll ever make in Congress is when you are asked by the president to authorize the use of force in a conflict, because you are now putting your name, on behalf of the people of your state, behind a military action, where Americans in uniform could lose their life.

So, in 2014, Barack Obama said he would not take military action against Assad
unless it was authorized by the Senate, beginning on the Committee of Foreign
Relations, where I am one of its members. And it was hard because you looked
at the pictures. I saw the same images people saw. I'm the father of children.
I saw the images of these little children — been gassed and poisoned by their
own leaders, and we were angry. Something had to happen, and there was the
sense that we needed to seek retribution.

And then I looked at Barack Obama's plan. Barack Obama's plan, which John
Kerry later described as unbelievably small, and I concluded that that attack
would not only not help the situation, it would make it actually worse. It
would allow Assad to stand up to the United States of America, survive a
strike, stay in power and actually strengthen his grip.

So it was a difficult decision to make, and when we only had a few days to
look at and make a decision on it, and I voted against Barack Obama's plan to
use force, and it was the right decision.


 I just want to say, at least on behalf of me and my family, I thank God all the time it was George W. Bush in the White House on 9/11 and not Al Gore. 

And you can — I think you can look back in hindsight and say a couple of
things, but he kept us safe. And not only did he keep us safe, but no matter
what you want to say about weapons of mass destruction, Saddam Hussein was in
violation of U.N. resolutions, in open violation, and the world wouldn't do
anything about it, and George W. Bush enforced what the international
community refused to do.

And again, he kept us safe, and I am forever grateful to what he did for this
country. 


 The World Trade Center came down because Bill Clinton didn't kill Osama bin Laden when he had the chance to kill him. 


 Well, because I'm influencing social policy — this is their money. This is the money of parents. You don't earn the tax credit unless you're working. That's your money, it doesn't belong to government.

Here's what I don't understand. If a business takes their money and they
invest in the piece of the equipment, they get to write off their taxes. But
if a parent takes money that they have earned to work and invests in their
children, they don't? This makes no sense.

Parenting is the most important job any of us will ever have. Family formation
is the most important thing in society. So what my tax plan does, is it does
create, especially for working families, an additional Child Tax Credit. So
that parents who are working get to keep more of their own money, not the
government's money, to invest in their children to go to school, to go to a
private school, to buy a new backpack.

Let me tell you, if you're a parent that's struggling, then you know that $50
a month is the difference between a new pair of shoes this month or not
getting a new pair of shoes for your kids. I'm going to have a tax plan that
is pro-family, because the family is the most important institution in
society. You cannot have a strong country without strong families.



 Well, first of all, I think amnesty is the forgiveness of a wrongdoing without consequence and that — I've never supported that. I do not support that. I think there has to be consequences for violating our immigration laws. What I think is clear about this issue to begin with is we're not going to be able to make progress on illegal immigration until first, illegal immigration is brought under control.

You go back to 1986, when they legalized three million people and they
promised to secure the border. It didn't happen, and as a result, people have
lost trust in the federal government. It is now clear that the only way to
make progress on immigration is not just to pass a law that enforces the law,
but actually prove to people that it's working.

They want to see the wall built. They want to see the additional border
agents. They want to see E-Verify. They want to see an entry-exit tracking
system. Forty percent of the people in this country illegally are entering
legally and overstaying visas. And only after all of that is in place, then
we'll see what the American people are willing to support on this issue.

I think the American people will be very reasonable, but responsible, about
how you handle someone who has been here a long time, who can pass a
background check, who pays a fine and starts paying taxes and all they want is
a work permit. But you can't do any of that until you prove to people that
illegal immigration is under control once and for all. 


 We're going to have to do this again, O.K.? When that issue was being debated, Ted Cruz, at a committee hearing, very passionately said, I want immigration reform to pass, I want people to be able to come out of the shadows. And he proposed an amendment that would legalized people here.

Not only that, he proposed doubling the number of green cards. He proposed a
500 percent increase on guest workers. Now his position is different. Now he
is a passionate opponent of all those things.

So he either wasn't telling the truth then or he isn't telling the truth now,
but to argue he is a purist on immigration is just not true. 


 Well, first of all, I don't know how he knows what I said on Univision, because he doesn't speak Spanish. And second of all, the other point that I would make...


 Look, this is a disturbing pattern now, because for a number of weeks now, Ted Cruz has just been telling lies. He lied about Ben Carson in Iowa. 

He lies about Planned Parenthood. He lies about marriage. He's lying about all
sorts of things. And now he makes things up. The bottom line is this is a
campaign and people are watching it. And they see the truth behind all these
issues.

And here is the truth, Ted Cruz supported legalizing people that were in this
country...


 ... and only now does he say...




 Well, we'll put on our website, marcorubio.com. We're going to...




 On anything I want?


 Well, let me talk about poverty.


 I do.


 I had something important.


 The issue of poverty is critical, because for me, poverty is the — is — is free enterprise not reaching people. Today, we have antipoverty programs that don't cure poverty. We don't cure poverty in America. Our antipoverty programs have become, in some instances, a way of life, a lifestyle.

Now, we do need antipoverty programs, you can't have free enterprise programs
without them, but not as a way of life. And so I have a very specific proposal
on this and I don't — in 60 seconds, I can't describe it all, but it basically
turns the program over to states. It allows states to design innovative
programs that cure poverty, because I think Nikki Haley will do a better job
curing poverty than Barack Obama. 


 Well, no. It's not the case. It didn't pass, and we haven't solved immigration in this country. It's still a problem. It is worse today than it was three years ago, which is worse than it was five years ago. And it has to be confronted and solved.

But the only way forward on this issue — you asked a question about
flexibility. Let me tell you about that. One of the things that you need in
leadership is the ability to understand that to get things done, you must
figure out the way to get it done. You will not pass comprehensive immigration
reform. People do not trust the federal government.

They want to see the law being enforced. They want to see illegal immigration
come under control. They want to see that wall. They want to see E-Verify.
They want to see all of these things working, and then they will have a
conversation with you about what do you do with people that have been here a
long time that are otherwise, you know, not criminals. But they're not going
to do it until you first enforce the law.


 Thirty seconds.


 I speak fast. 


 Well, I think one of the presidents — well, the president I grew up under was Ronald Reagan. And Reagan had a vision for America's future. And if you think about what Ronald Reagan inherited, it's not unlike what the next president is going to inherit.

This is the worst president we've had in 35 years, 35 years back would have
made it Jimmy Carter. That's what Ronald Reagan inherited. And I think the
question you would ask is, how did you inspire again the American people to
believe in the future?

How did you — what did it take to ensure that the American people, despite all
of the difficulties of the time — you know, you look back at that time, the
American military was in decline. Our standing in the world was in decline. We
had hostages being held in Iran. Our economy was in bad shape.

The American people were scared about the future. They were scared about what
kind of country their children were going to live in and inherit. And yet
somehow Ronald Reagan was able to instill in our nation and in our people a
sense of optimism.

And he turned America around because of that vision and ultimately because of
that leadership. I wish Ronald Reagan was still around. This country needs
someone just like that.

And if our next president is even half the president Ronald Reagan was,
America is going to be greater than it has ever been. 


 Thank you, and thank you for watching tonight.

This is a difficult time in our country. Our economy's flat, it's not creating
the jobs it once did, and people struggle living paycheck to paycheck. Our
culture's in trouble. Wrong is considered right and right is considered wrong.

All the things that once held our families together are now under constant
assault. And around the world, America's reputation is in decline. Our allies
don't trust us, our adversaries don't fear us, Iran captures our sailors and
parades them before the world on video.

These are difficult times, but 2016 can be a turning point. That's why I'm
running for president, and that's why I'm here today to ask you for your vote.
If you elect me president, we are going to re-embrace free enterprise so that
everyone can go as far as their talent and their work will take them.

We are going to be a country that says that "life begins at conception and
life is worthy of the protection of our laws." We're going to be a country
that says "that marriage is between one man and one woman." We are going to be
a country that says, "The constitution and the rights that it talks about do
not come from our president, they come from our creator." We are going to be
loyal to our allies like Israel, not enemies like Iran. And we will rebuild
the U.S. military so no one will there test it.

Vote for me. I will unify this party. I will grow it. We will win this
election, and we will make the 21st century a new American century.



 Well, thank you. This election, we have to decide the identity of America in the 2ist century, but as part of this primary, we have to find out our identity as a party and as a movement.

Thirty-six years ago, Ronald Reagan and George H.W. Bush began the Reagan
Revolution. For a generation, they defined conservatism as limited government
and free enterprise and a strong national defense. But they also appealed to
our hopes and our dreams. Now we have to decide if we are still that kind of
party and still that kind of movement, or if we're simply going to become a
party that preys on people's angers and fears.

I hope we remain that conservative movement that appeals to our hopes and our
dreams and the belief that America will always be better in its future than
it's been in its story history. 


 Senator Cruz has called your immigration plan amnesty, and has an add out there comparing it to President Obama's. He says both of you support allowing undocumented immigrants legal status here in the United States after a background check, paying a fine, and paying taxes.

Are those claims correct?


 Well, first of all, and before we do anything, I've been abundantly clear on this. When I'm president of the United States, before we do anything on immigration, we are going to secure the border. And, that's not just the physical border with Mexico, it's Visa overstays. That's 45 percent of the problem right there.

It also has to do — that's why we need e-verify, and entry-exit tracking
system, and so-forth. And, until that happens, we're not doing anything else.
And then we'll see what the American people are willing to support.

And Donald mentioned, because he mentioned me in his answer, that his position
on immigration is what has driven this debate. Well, the truth is, though,
that a lot of these positions that he's now taking are new to him.

In 2011, he talked about the need for a pathway to citizenship. In 2012,
Donald criticized Mitt Romney, saying that Mitt lost his election because of
self-deportation.

And so even today, we saw a report in one of the newspapers that Donald,
you've hired a significant number of people from other countries to take jobs
that Americans could have filled.

My mom and dad — my mom was a maid at a hotel, and instead of hiring an
American like her, you have brought in over a thousand people from all over
the world to fill those jobs instead.

So I think this is an important issue. And I think we are realizing
increasingly that it's an important issue for the country that has been
debated for 30 years, but finally needs to be solved once and for all.


 That — my point that I made was you had criticized Mitt Romney for self-deportation. You said that his strategy of self- deportation is why he lost the election.

And I think people in Florida would be surprised, because, in fact, the
article that was today, they interviewed a number of people that would have
been willing to do those jobs, if you would have been willing to hire them to
do it.


 No, he...


 Well, in fact, I agree we should have won and I wished we would have, but, in fact, you did criticize him for using the term "self-deportation." I mean, that's on the record and people can look it up right now online.

But, again, I just want to reiterate, I think it's really important, this
point. I think it's fine, it's an important point that you raise and we
discuss on immigration. This is a big issue for Texas, a huge issue for the
country.

But I also think that if you're going to claim that you're the only one that
lifted this into the campaign, that you acknowledge that, for example, you're
only person on this stage that has ever been fined for hiring people to work
on your projects illegally.

You hired some workers from Poland...


 In fact, some of the people...




 Yes, you've hired a thousand from another country...


 Let me just say — let me finish the statement. This is important.


 He hired workers from Poland. And he had to pay a million dollars or so in a judgment from...


 That's a fact. People can look it up. I'm sure people are Googling it right now. Look it up. "Trump Polish workers," you'll see a million dollars for hiring illegal workers on one of his projects. He did it.  That happened.


 Many from other countries instead of hiring Americans.


 Yeah, a couple points. If he builds the wall the way he built Trump Towers, he'll be using illegal immigrant labor to do it. The second...


 But it — no, it's not a sound bite. It's a fact. Again, go online and Google it. Donald Trump, Polish workers. You'll see it.

The second thing, about the trade war — I don't understand, because your ties
and the clothes you make is made in Mexico and in China. So you're gonna be
starting a trade war against your own ties and your own suits.


 Why don't you make them in America?


 Well, then make them in America.


 Well, make them in America. 


 Well then, make them in America.


 Well, make them in America.


 And so you make them in China and in Russia.


 Well, I don't know anything about bankrupting four companies. You've bankrupted..


 I don't know anything about...


 ... starting a university, and that was a fake university.


 There are people who borrowed $36,000...


 ... to go to Trump University, and they're suing now — $36,000 to go to a university...


 ... that's a fake school.


 And you know what they got? They got to take a picture with a cardboard cutout of Donald Trump...


 That's what they got for $36,000.


 Most of the lawsuits.


 He's talked through the whole thing. 


 Here's a guy that inherited $200 million. If he hadn't inherited $200 million, you know where Donald Trump would be right now?


 Selling watches in Manhattan. 


 That's where he would be. 


 Oh, OK. One million.


 Better release your tax returns so we can see how much money he made.


 Oh, he doesn't make that money.


 Correct.


 It didn't change.


 No, it's the same policy. It will have to end at some moment, and as I said, we will — we will eliminate that executive order. The people that are on it now will not be allowed to renew it, and new applicants will not be allowed to apply to it. And it's not because we're not compassionate to the plight of a 2 — someone who came here when they were 2 years old. I understand. I know people that are personally impacted by this.

The problem with the executive order is it is unconstitutional. The president
doesn't have the power to do that. 

And he himself admitted that.


 I'm sorry, but let me finish my...


 No, but this is not about deportation. Everybody always goes immediately to the issue of deportation. This is about DACA. DACA is an executive order that is unconstitutional. I will cancel it on my first day in office, which means people who currently hold those permits will not be allowed to renew them when they expire, and new people will not be allowed to apply for them.

Now, I am sympathetic to the plight of someone who came here when they were 2
or 3 years old through no fault of their own, but you can't solve it doing
something that is unconstitutional. No matter how sympathetic we may be to a
cause, we cannot violate the Constitution of the United States the way this
president now does on a regular basis. 


 Because it is not true that I'm not going to get rid of DACA. I am going to get rid of DACA. In the Spanish interview, you just read out the transcript in Spanish, I said, it will have to end at some point. That point will be when I eliminate the executive order and the people who have those permits when they expire will not be allowed to renew it. And new people will not be able to apply. In fact, I don't even think we should be taking new enrollees in the program now.

That is how the program ends and how you wind it down is you allow the people
who are on it, when the program expires, they cannot renew it, and it goes
away. But I will cancel the executive order as soon as I take — as soon as I
step foot into the Oval Office.


 You lied about the Polish workers.


 You lied to the students at Trump University.


 Oh, he lied 38 years ago. All right, I guess there's a statute of limitation on lies.  


 That's not an accurate assessment of what I said about ethanol. What I said is that ethanol will phase out, it is phasing out now. By 2022 that program expires by virtue of the existing law, and at that point it will go away. I don't agree with the mandate and the program that's in place, but I think it's unfair that these people have gone out and invested all this money into this program and we're just going to yank it away from them.

And, again, you read the statement in Spanish. I said very clearly on Spanish
television, DACA will have to end at some point, and that point is — at that
time I was not a candidate for president. I said it will end in my first day
in office as president, and the people who have it now will not be able to
renew it. New applicants will not be able to apply. That is the end of DACA.

I am sympathetic to this cause, but once again, it cannot supersede the
Constitution of the United States which this president habitually and
routinely every single day ignores and violates. 


 I'm sorry I was mentioned...


 Maria I was mentioned in that. I was mentioned in that statement.


 ... OK. I was mentioned — just because of the hispanic — and I'll be brief.

A couple points, number one, I do think it's amazing that on this stage
tonight there are two descendants of Cuban origin, and an African American. We
are the party of diversity, not the Democratic party. [_cheering and
applause_]

And, the second point I would make is that we have to move past this idea that
somehow the hispanic community only cares about immigration.

Yes, it's an important issue because we know and love people that have been
impacted by it. But, I'm going to tell you that the most powerful sentiment in
the hispanic community, as it is in every immigrant community, is the burning
desire to leave your children better off than yourself...[_bell
ringing_]...and, you can only do that through free enterprise. That's what we
stand for, not socialism like Bernie Sanders, and increasingly Hillary
Clinton. 


 Well, I think you ask a very important question, because the issue here — the next president of the United States has to fill this vacancy.

Justice Scalia — in the history of the republic, there has never been anyone
better than him at standing for the principle that the Constitution is not a
living and breathing document — it is supposed to be applied as originally
meant.

And the next president of the United States has to be someone that you can
trust and believe in to appoint someone just as good as Scalia — plus there
may be at least two other vacancies.

So you ask Mr. Trump to respond and say that he would, and he says that he
would. But the bottom line is, if you look at his record over the last 25 or
30 years, on issue after issue, he has not been on our side.

Now, if he's changed, we're always looking for converts into the conservative
movement. But the bottom line is that, if you don't have a record there to
look at and say, "I feel at peace that when Donald Trump is president of the
United States, he's going to be firmly on our side on these issues."

In fact, very recently, he was still defending Planned Parenthood. He says
he's not going to take sides in the Palestinians versus Israel. These are
concerning things.

And so, yes, I have a doubt about whether Donald Trump, if he becomes
president, will replace Justice Scalia with someone just like Justice Scalia.


 The individual mandate. He said he likes the individual mandate portion of it, which I don't believe that should be part of it. That should not remain there. I think here's what we need to replace it with.

We need to repeal Obamacare completely and replace it with a system that puts
Americans in charge of their health care money again. If your employer wants
to buy health insurance for you, they can continue to do so from any company
in America they want to buy it from.

Otherwise, your employers can provide you health care money, tax- free, not
treated as income, and you can use that money only for health care, but you
can use it to fund health care any way you want, fully fund a health savings
account, the combination of a health savings account or a private plan from
any company in any state in the country.

And if you don't have that, then you will have a refundable tax credit that
provides you health care money to buy your own health care coverage. And that,
I think, is a much better approach than Obamacare, which, by the way, isn't
just bad for health care, it's bad for our economy. It is a health care law
that is basically forcing companies to lay people off, cut people's hours,
move people to part-time. It is not just a bad health care law, it is a job-
killing law. And I will repeal it as president and we will replace it with
something substantially better for all Americans. 


 Dana, I was mentioned in his response, so if I may about the insurance companies...


 You may not be aware of this, Donald, because you don't follow this stuff very closely, but here's what happened. When they passed Obamacare they put a bailout fund in Obamacare. All these lobbyists you keep talking about, they put a bailout fund in the law that would allow public money to be used, taxpayer money, to bail out companies when they lost money.

And, we led the effort and wiped out that bailout fund. The insurance
companies are not in favor of me, they hate that. They're suing that now to
get that bailout money put back in.

Here's what you didn't hear in that answer, and this is important guys, this
is an important thing. What is your plan? I understand the lines around the
state, whatever that means. This is not a game where you draw maps...


 ... What is your plan, Mr. Trump?  What is your plan on healthcare?


 ... What's your plan...


 ... What's your plan... 


 ... We already mentioned that  plan, I know what that is, but what else is part of your plan...


 ... So, you're only thing is to get rid of the lines around the states. What else is part of your healthcare plan...


 ... That's your only plan...


 ... Alright, ...


 ... His plan. That was the plan...


 Alright...
 Now he's repeating himself.


 




 ... I just watched you repeat yourself five times five seconds ago...


 ... I see him repeat himself every night, he says five things, everyone's dumb, he's gonna make America great again...


 ... We're going to win, win win, he's winning in the polls...


 ... And the lines around the state. ... Every night.


 ... Yeah, he's going to give us his plan now, right? OK...


 ... He's done it again. 


 Alright.


 Well, can I just clarify something?


 Wolf, no. I want to clarify something.


 This is a Republican debate, right? Because that attack about letting people die in the streets...


 Yes, tomorrow or Saturday, in fact, is our plan to release them. And there's nothing really that interesting in them. So I have no problem releasing them. And luckily I'm not being audited this year, or last year, for that matter.




 But this is my time. I want to go back to this question you asked about the debt. This is an important issue. It's a huge issue, OK? In less than five years, 83 percent of our entire budget will be made up of Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, and the interest on the debt.

That means only 17 percent of our budget will be for things like the military
or the Department of Education or environmental protection issues.

You cannot balance our budget unless you deal with that 83 percent, which is
why I've been repeatedly talking about since my time running for the Senate in
Florida, where there are a lot of people like my mother that depend on Social
Security and Medicare, on the need to save those programs, by reforming the
way they work for future generations.

And I think if we — the longer we take to do this, the closer we are going to
get to a debt crisis. And, Wolf, you did not get an answer to your question.
This debt issue is — the next president of the United States will not be able
to serve four to eight years without dealing with the national debt.

It is not a question of if, it is a question of when we have a debt crisis.
And we should not leave the stage here tonight without hearing a serious
answer from every single one of us about how we are going to deal bring the
national debt under control once and for all.


 Because — and I don't know if Donald realizes this. I'm sure it's not his intent perhaps. But the position you've taken is an anti-Israel position. And here's why. Because you cannot be an honest broker in a dispute between two sides in which one of the sides is constantly acting in bad faith. The Palestinian Authority has walked away from multiple efforts to make peace, very generous offers from the Israels. Instead, here's what the Palestinians do. They teach their four- year-old children that killing Jews is a glorious thing. Here's what Hamas does. They launch rockets and terrorist attacks again Israel on an ongoing basis. The bottom line is, a deal between Israel and the Palestinians, given the current makeup of the Palestinians, is not possible.

And so the next president of the United States needs to be someone like me who
will stand firmly on the side of Israel. I'm not — I'm not going to sit here
and say, "Oh, I'm not on either side." I will be on a side. I will be on
Israel's side every single day because they are the only pro-American, free
enterprise democracy in the entire Middle East. 


 He thinks a Palestinian is a real estate deal.


 The Palestinians are not a real estate deal, Donald.


 A deal is not a deal when you're dealing with terrorists. Have you ever negotiated with terrorists?


 ... Donald, might be able to  Palestinians and Arabs, but it's not a real estate deal...


 Yes, a couple of points. Number one, on the Libya situation, we didn't topple Gadhafi, the Libyan people toppled Gadhafi. The only choice before America that this president had to make is, does it happen quickly or does it take a long time?

And I argued if it takes a long time, you're going to have rebel forces emerge
like these radical Islamists to take advantage of the vacuum. And that's what
happened. That's where the term "lead from behind" came. And that's the
foreign policy that apparently Senator Cruz appears to agree with.

On John Kerry, yes, you know why, because every day John Kerry wasn't
appointed was another day Hillary Clinton was still in charge of the State
Department. And she was absolutely horrible.

I couldn't imagine that they were going to find somebody even worse than her,
but this president never ceases to amaze. 

And the last point I would make on South Korea, now this is important, because
we're asking to be commander-in-chief. Donald is asking to be commander-in-
chief. And he's saying these guys need to do more.

South Korea contributes $800 million a year to that effort. And Japan
contributes as well. And here's why our commitment to that regional security
is so critical, Donald, because if we walk away from them, both Japan and
South Korea will become nuclear weapons powers.

They can do that very quickly. And that's what they will do if the American
defense agreements wither away, which is why we have to rebuild the military,
but why we can't walk away from our Asia-Pacific defense status.


 How much?


 This guy always goes for...


 This is so typical.


 No, in fact what I have said is the only thing — the FBI made this very clear 48 hours ago — the only thing they are asking of Apple is that Apple allow them to use their own systems in the FBI to try to guess the password of the San Bernardino killer. Apple initially came out saying, "We're being ordered to create a back door to an encryption device." That is not accurate.

The only thing they're being asked to do, and the FBI made this very clear
about 48 hours ago, is allow us to disable the self- destruct mode that's in
the Apple phone so that we can try to guess using our own systems what the
password of this killer was.

And I think they should comply with that. If that's all they're asking for,
they are not asking for Apple to create a back door to encryption.


 Because at the time, Apple was portraying that the court order was to create a back door to an encryption device.


 To comply with an order that says that they have to allow the FBI the opportunity to try to guess the password?


 Absolutely. That Apple phone didn't even belong to the killer. It belonged to the killer's employer who have agreed to allow him to try to do this. That is all they're asking them to do is to disable the self-destruct mode or the auto-erase mode on one phone in the entire world. But Apple doesn't want to do it because they think it hurts their brand.

Well, let me tell you, their brand is not superior to the national security of
the United States of America. 


 Sure, because bankruptcy doesn't work unless you change the way you're operating, or you're going to be bankrupt again. And, the problem with Puerto Rico is it's economy is not growing. It has a massive exodus of professionals and others that are leaving to my home state of Florida, and all over the country.

They're coming to the mainland from Puerto Rico because the economy there is
not growing, it's too expensive to do business there. The tax rate is too
high. The government regulations are too extensive.

This year alone, with all the problems they're having, they barely cut their
budget from one year to the next. So, I think the leadership on the island has
to show their willingness to get their house in order and put in place
measures allow the economy there to grow again. If the economy of Puerto Rico
does not grow they will never generate the revenue to pay this debt, or the
billions of dollars in unfunded liabilities that they have on their books of
promises they've made to future generations to make payments.

So, yes, if they do all of those things then we can explore the use of
bankruptcy protection, but not as the first resort, which is what they're
asking for, because it will not solve the problems on the island and you're
going to continue to see hundreds of thousands of people leave that beautiful
place, and coming to the mainland.

They're United States citizens, they're obviously entitled to do so, and we
welcome them, but we would also prefer to see a Puerto Rico that once again is
growing economically, and is robust. And, the leaders in charge there now are
doing a terrible job.

Their previous governor, Louis Fortuno was doing a great job until he barely
lost that election to......to someone who has taken a big
government stance once again...


 Well, thank you for having us tonight. You know, this campaign has come a long way. It was just a few months ago there were 15 or 11 us on the stage and now it's narrowed and the votes are starting to count. And we have an incredible decision to make, not just about the direction of America, but the identity of our party and of the conservative movement.

The time for games is over.

I know you've had a lot of choices to make, but now it's time to narrow it
down. And I'm asking you to get behind me, go on our Web site and join you our
effort, marcorubio.com, so we can bring an end to this silliness, this
looniness, and once again re-embrace all the things that made America and the
Republican Party the bearer of the conservative movement in this country.



 Yes, you know, Bret, let me say something. This campaign for the last year Donald Trump has basically mocked everybody with personal attacks. He has done so to people that are sitting on the stage today. He has done so about people that are disabled. He has done it about every candidate in this race.

So if there is anyone who has ever deserved to be attacked that way, it has
been Donald Trump, for the way he has treated people in the campaign.

Now that said, I would much prefer to have a policy debate. I hope that's what
we will have here tonight. Let's have a policy debate...


 ... let's talk about Donald Trump's strategy and my strategy and Ted's strategy and John Kasich's strategy when it comes to ISIS. And on health care and on the important issues facing this country.

But let's be honest too about all this. The media has given these personal
attacks that Donald Trump has made an incredible amount of coverage. Let's
start talking again about the issues that matter to this country. I'm ready to
do that starting right here right now tonight.


 Yes, I would just say a couple of things. There is no doubt that Donald has done well in these elections. There is no doubt about that. The numbers are there.

Here is what the numbers also say. Two-thirds of the people who have cast a
vote in a Republican primary or caucus have voted against you. They do not
want you to be our nominee.

And, the reason why is because we are not going to turn over the conservative
movement, or the party of Lincoln or Reagan, for example, to someone whose
positions are not conservative. To someone who last week defended Planned
Parenthood for 30 seconds a debate stage. To someone, for example, that has no
ideas on foreign — someone who thinks the nuclear triad is a rock band from
the 1980's.


 ... To someone who time and again on issue after issue has not proven that he has the principals...... That outline what the conservative movement has been about. And, as Ted said, the things that made America great.

America is great because of the conservative principles of limited government
and free enterprise, and a strong national defense...


 ... And, our nominee needs to be someone that stands by those things...


 ... Donald has not demonstrated that.


 ...


 ...


 ......


 ... Of all the people on this stage, he performs the worst against Hillary Clinton.


 ... If you're our nominee, we will lose...


 ... You lose by  points. She will wipe you out.


 If you're our nominee ...


 ... Oh, excuse me ...


 Well, first of all, government doesn't...

First of all, Chris, my point is exactly right. He has spent a career of
convincing Americans that he's something that he's not in exchange for their
money. Now he's trying to do the same in exchange for their country. This is a
fact. He talks about these great businesses that he's built. He inherited over
$100 million.


 And with that money, he lost more money than he made.


 He can start tonight by announcing that all the Donald Trump clothing will no longer be made in China and in Mexico, but will be made here in the United States. 

And on the issue of job creation, I find this interesting. The private sector
creates jobs. The jobs of those of us in public service are to put in place
policies that allow the economy to grow.

That's the problem with the Democratic Party. They think government is what
creates jobs. Government does not create jobs.

Now, the way you create jobs is you make America the easiest and the best
place in the world to start a business or to expand an existing business. If
you go on my website, marcorubio.com, you will see a real plan to fix our
taxes, to roll back regulations, to repeal and replace Obamacare, not just
lines around the states. Serious policies and proposals.


 Here we go.


 Here we go. It's personal. 




 The answer is, he's not going to do it. And you know why? Because there are plenty of clothing makers in America. 




 If you go on my website, marcorubio.com, everything we have on there is made in America. The reason why he makes it in China or Mexico is because he can make more money on it. That's why he's doing it.

And the second point, you see what happens, again, when you challenge him on a
policy issue. You asked him about the economy, and the first thing he does is
launch an attack about some little guy thing. Because he doesn't have answers.


 And he's asking us to make him the president of the United States of America.  


 This is not a game.


 Well, then answer the economy question.


 But he doesn't answer the employment question.


 You ever heard of Trump Steaks? You ever heard of Trump Vodka?


 All of these companies he has ruined.


 Trump Steaks is gone. You have ruined these companies.


 Let's see if he answers it.


 All right, well, let's hear it big Donald.


 Well, first of all, let me say that on the issue of the off-the-record, that's not up to the New York Times. That's up to you, Donald. If tonight you tell the New York Times to release the audio, they will do it, and we can exactly see what your true views are on immigration...


 ... because it is a major issue, in your campaign that you've made a center issue. Now, as far as my record on it is concerned, I absolutely want to solve this issue. And I did the best we could in a Senate that was controlled by liberal Democrats and Harry Reid in the hopes that the House, made up of conservatives, would take it up and make it even stronger. And I said that repeatedly at the time.

I'm not just saying that now; I said it throughout that process. We do need to
do with this issue. 

When I'm president it will not be dealt with the way it was done in the
Senate.

It will be done first and foremost by bringing illegal immigration under
control and proving it to the American people. And only after that is done can
anything else happen.

And it will be something the American people support. We'll see what they are
willing to support. It's not going to be an executive order and we're not
going to ram it down their throats.


 That's not accurate. I'm sorry, Megyn, that's not accurate. That's my — there were at least 300 Americans that applied last year, none of them were hired. Some of them...


 ... have been interviewed...


 ... They were not hired...


 ... And, here's why he does it this way, let me explain why he  H2-B...


 ... Because when you bring them in this way, when you bring someone in on one of these visas they can't go work for anybody else. They either work for you or they have to go back home. You basically have them captive, so you don't have to worry about competing for higher wages with another hotel down the street. And, that's why you bring workers from abroad.

You argue that you're here to fight on behalf of the American worker, but when
you have chances to help the American worker......but when you
have chances to help the American workers, you're making your clothes overseas
and you're hiring your workers from overseas. 


 There were Americans in that hot area.


 That's correct, and Libya.


 Correct.


 Well, Bret, what I've argued from the very beginning is ISIS — in order to defeat ISIS, you must deny them operating spaces. This is how ISIS or any radical group, for that matter, can grow. It's how Al Qaida was able to carry out 9/11, is that the Taliban gave them an operating space in Afghanistan.

Today that operating space has largely been based in Iraq and Syria, but I've
been warning about the Libyan presence for the better part of two years. So
they need to be targeted wherever they have an operating space. They do need
to be defeated on the ground by a ground force made up primarily of Sunni
Arabs themselves. This is a radical Sunni movement. They can only be defeated
if they are driven out and the territory is held by Sunni Arabs. But it will
require a specific number of American special operators, in combination with
an increase in air strikes. And that will include, if necessary, operating
spaces in Libya, which, in fact, they are using to project into the Sinai
against Egypt and ultimately into Europe, as well.


 ... This isn't just about flexibility.


 There's a difference between flexibility and telling people whatever you think you need to say to get them to do what you want them to do. 
 Well, he did, and that's why Trump University...


 ... Is so relevant here. I saw this video last week where he's sitting in front of a camera saying we're going to hire the best people, and I'm going to hand pick them. There are going to be hand picked and instructors, the best instructors in the world. One of them, but the way, was the manager at a Buffalo Wild Wing. And, that's who they hired to do this, and people borrowed money, and they signed up for this fake university.

And, these people owe all this money now, and they got nothing in return for
it, but you are willing to say whatever you had to say......to
get them to give you their money...


 ... And, we're not going to do that to our country...


 ... That's false...


 ... That's false...


 ... The Better Business Bureau gave it a "D" minus.


 ... Go on my website, Marco Rubio.com...


 ... this anymore.


 ... A third of the people ...


 I spoke to one of the victims yesterday.


 I spoke to one of the victims yesterday.


 No, there are several. Obviously there are so many, I can't talk to them every day. I spoke to one of them, he told me exactly what happened. They signed up for this course because they believed Mr. Trump was this fantastic businessman, that Donald is going to teach them the tricks of the trade.

They signed up. They paid $15,000 for this course. They were asked for
additional money for this course. If they really wanted the real secrets of
success, they had to pay even more money, and so they did.

And you know what they got in these courses? Stuff you can pull off of Zillow.
When they finally realized what a scam it was, they asked for their money
back.

And you refused to give them their money back. Why don't you tonight...


 Then why don't you tonight say you're going to give the money back to everybody who wants...


 Megyn, this is why this is relevant to this election.


 This is why, because he's trying to do to the American voter what he did to the people that signed up for this course. He's making promises he has no intention of keeping. And it won't just be $36,000 that they lose, it's our country that's at stake here.

The future of the United States and the most important election in a
generation, and he's trying to con people into giving them their vote just
like he conned these people into giving him their money.


 Notice that's not an answer.


 There's no — as you can see in his answer, it's always the same thing.


 He has defrauding people out of things, and not just — and not just, by the way, on the issue of Trump University. He had another development in Mexico that he had nothing to do with except his name on the building. People put money into that building.


 They lost their money. Yes, licensing, but you told them you owned the building. So they gave him his money. They lost their money. Time and again...


 Well, I know I've talked about it, and others in our campaign have talked about it, and other candidates have talked about it, as well. What happened in Flint was a terrible thing. It was systemic breakdown at every level of government, at both the federal and partially the — both the state and partially at the federal level, as well.

And by the way, the politicizing of it I think is unfair, because I don't
think that someone woke up one morning and said, "Let's figure out how to
poison the water system to hurt someone." 

But accountability is important. I will say, I give the governor credit. He
took responsibility for what happened. And he's talked about people being held
accountable......and the need for change, with Governor Snyder.
But here's the point. This should not be a partisan issue. The way the
Democrats have tried to turn this into a partisan issue, that somehow
Republicans woke up in the morning and decided, "Oh, it's a good idea to
poison some kids with lead." It's absurd. It's outrageous. It isn't true.


All of us are outraged by what happened. And we should work together to solve
it. And there is a proper role for the government to play at the federal
level, in helping local communities to respond to a catastrophe of this kind,
not just to deal with the people that have been impacted by it, but to ensure
that something like this never happens again.


 As few as possible. The Second Amendment, as I've said before, is not a suggestion. It is the constitutional right of every American to protect themselves and their families. It is a right that — it is the Second Amendment for a reason.

It is right after the defense of the freedom of speech for a reason, for
clearly the founders of our nation understood and the framers of the
Constitution understood that you cannot have life and you cannot have liberty
and cannot pursue happiness if you are not safe.
 And the Second
Amendment — when people talk about gun laws, what they need to realize is,
criminals don't follow gun laws. They're criminals. By definition, they ignore
the law. 

But the gun rights of Americans, if you are talking to a law- abiding citizen
and a gun-owner like myself, if you pass a law, I will follow whatever the law
is. A criminal will not do it. They will continue to pursue these guns on the
black market, where they then go out and commit crimes and they steal guns
from each other.

Gun laws are not effective. They simply do not provide for safety. But they
do, however, ensure that law-abiding people don't have access to weapons to
protect themselves and guns to protect themselves, but criminals always will
be well armed. They don't care about the law; they don't follow the law. We
will protect the Second Amendment when I'm president of the United States.



 When they're done with the yoga, can I answer a question?


 Unbelievable.


 Well, he's very flexible, so you never know. 


 Well, first of all, I think, as we've seen throughout this campaign, Donald has not shown a seriousness about the issues of foreign policy. He just simply hasn't.

Whether it was the structure of our military, even today he was asked a
question about the issue of commanders not following his lead on killing the
family of terrorists. And his answer basically was, if I tell them to do it,
they're going to do it. Now that's just not true.

Foreign policy is not only consequential, I think much of our future now
depends on it. You know, I see a lot of young people at my events around the
country. I feel great when they come.

And I always them that despite the hardships of the moment, I honestly believe
that today's Millennials have a chance to be the greatest generation we've had
in 100 years. I really do.

Because the world today has hundreds of millions of people that can afford to
be their clients, their customers, their partners, people they collaborate
with. But that won't happen if the world is dangerous and it's unstable.

And that will require strong American leadership. The next president of the
United States is going to have eight years of a mess of a foreign policy to
clean up. That's why it can't be Hillary Clinton.

And quite frankly, that's why it can't be someone who simply has not shown the
intellectual curiosity or the interest in learning about these very
complicated issues. And Donald simply hasn't.


 But that doesn't answer the question. 


 Yeah, I just want to — a couple points. Once again, he was pressed on a policy issue to show his understanding of the foreign policy, and his reaction was just to attack somebody else with a name.

Here's the bottom line. And I'm going to repeat it again. The world today is
as complicated and as complex as it has been certainly in a very — certainly
in the lifetime of anybody here today. You indeed do have a lunatic in North
Korea with nuclear weapons. You indeed do have the Chinese government taking
over the most important shipping lane in the world. And Vladimir Putin, who
you've expressed admiration for, Donald...


 You've expressed admiration for him.


 Donald, you said he's a strong leader.


 He is now dividing Europe up...


 All right, I'm going to finish my statement here.


 And he's also sowing instability in the Middle East. You have Iran who's going to get $100 billion of sanctions relief. You have radical jihadists spreading all over the world. This is a time for seriousness on these issues. You have yet to answer a single serious question about any of this. Will you give us a detailed answer about foreign policy any time you're asked on it?


 I'll support the Republican nominee.


 I'll support Donald if he's the Republican nominee, and let me tell you why. Because the Democrats have two people left in the race. One of them is a socialist. America doesn't want to be a socialist country. If you want to be a socialist country, then move to a socialist country.

The other one is under FBI investigation. And not only is she under FBI
investigation, she lied to the families of the victims of Benghazi, and anyone
who lies to the families of victims who lost their lives in the service of our
country can never be the commander- in-chief of the United States.


 We must defeat Hillary Clinton.


 Well, I know this has been an unusual election cycle, as it continues, and there's a lot of problems in America, and people are truly hurting. But this election is not just about confronting our problems; it's also about embracing our opportunities.

I believe the 21st century holds the potential to be the greatest era in the
history of the United States, if we get this election right and if we act now.
If we do, if we do what needs to be done, we can leave our children as the
freest and most prosperous Americans that have ever lived, and the 21st
century can be the greatest era in the amazing story of America. So I ask
everyone to vote for me and join our effort at marcorubio.com. 


 Every election is important. I believe this is the most important election in a generation. Because what's at stake in this election is not simply what party is going to be in charge or which candidate wins. What's at stake is our identity as a nation and as a people.

For over two centuries, America has been an exceptional nation. And now the
time has come for this generation to do what it must do to keep it that way.
If we make the right choice in this election, our children are going to be the
freest and most prosperous Americans that have ever lived. And the 21st
century is going to be a new American century. 


 No, I support free trade deals that are good for America. We're 5 percent of the world's population. If all we do is sell things to each other, we can only sell to 5 percent of the people on earth. We have to have access to the hundreds of millions of people in the world today who can afford to buy things.

The problem is we're a low-tariff country. To import something into the United
States is not very expensive, but many of these countries we can't export to
because their tariffs are too high. And so I am in favor of deals that allow
us to bring down those tariffs so that America can sell things to all these
people around the world.

There are good trade deals and there are bad ones. So for example, here in
Florida, we have benefited from the free trade deal with Colombia. It's
allowed flower exporters to come into the United States but it's created jobs
for hundreds of people who are now delivering those flowers and working in
that industry. We have a surplus with Colombia.

On the other hand, you've seen trade deals like in Mexico that have been less
than promising in some aspects, better in others. Bottom line is I believe
that America, if given access to foreign markets, our workers are the most
productive in the world, our people are the most innovative on this planet. If
it is a free and fair trade deal, we can compete against anyone in the world,
and we need to in the 21st century. 


 If it's being abused the way Disney did. Understand that program, it is illegal now under that program to use it to replace American workers. Under that program, you have to prove not only that you're not replacing Americans, but that you've tried to hire Americans. And if a company is caught abusing that process, they should never be allowed to use it again.

The second problem with the current structure of the program that people
perhaps don't understand is a lot of these companies are not directly hiring
employees from abroad. They are hiring a consulting company like Tata, for
example, out of India. That company then hoards up all of these visas. They
hire workers. You hire — Disney or some other company hires this company.

What they're basically doing is they are insourcing and outsourcing. They are
bringing in workers from abroad that are not direct employees of a Disney or
someone else, they're employees of this consulting business. And what I argue
is that no consulting business such as that should be allowed to hoard up all
of these visas, that the visas should only be available for companies to use
to directly hire workers and that we should be stricter in how he enforce it.

It is illegal now, it is a violation of the law now to use that program to
replace Americans. And if a company is caught doing that, whether it be Disney
or anyone else, they should be barred from using the program in the future.


 Correct.


 Well first, I think — well, I'd be open to it if it takes a pause. But I don't think it takes a pause to enforce the law. What they are doing is they are in fact using that program to replace an American.

If there's an American working at Disney and they bring someone from another
country using H1B to replace their direct job, that's in violation of the law.
And what I'm explaining to you is, what they are doing now is they are not —
what they are doing is they are eliminating the job.

They are outsourcing the entire tech division to a consulting company. They
are making the argument that we didn't replace you. We just replaced the whole
unit by hiring a company to do it instead. And that company that they're
hiring is bringing their workers from abroad. It's a loophole they've figured
out that we need to close so they can no longer continue to do it that way.



 Well, I would add when you talk about the millions of green cards that are coming in, those aren't actually workers at all. They are just coming in primarily based on family connection. And ;let me tell you, when my parents came in 1956, I acknowledge that my parents came to the U.S. on a family-based system.

The problem is nothing looks like it did 60 years ago. The 21st Century
economy simply is not creating enough jobs for people that don't have skills.
When my parents came, they had a very limited education. My father stopped
going to school when he was 9 years old because his mother died and he had to
work. And he would work the next 70 years of his life and never go back to
school. And I'm grateful every day that America welcomed them.

But today in the 21st Century, 60 years later, finding jobs when you don't
have skills is very difficult. We need to move to a merit- based system of
immigration, not just on H-1B, particularly on green cards. The primary
criteria for bringing someone from abroad in the 21st Century should be, what
skills do you have? What business are you going to open? What investment are
you going to make? What job are you going to be able to do when you arrive in
the United States? 


 Well, first of all, let me say that you're right, there are about 3 million seniors in Florida with Social Security and Medicare. One of them is my mother, who happens to be here today. I'm against any changes to Social Security that are bad for my mother. And we don't have to make any changes for them. But anyone who tells you that Social Security can stay the way it is is lying. Any politician that goes around saying, "We don't have to anything; all we have to do is raise a few taxes or just leave it the way it is," they're not being honest with you.

Social Security will go bankrupt and it will bankrupt the country with it. So
what it will require is people younger, like myself, people that are 30 years
away from retirement, to accept that our Social Security is going to work
differently than it did for my parents.

For example, instead of retiring at 67 the way I'm supposed to retire, I'd
have to retire at 68. If I were still in the Senate, I'd be one of the
youngest people there. 

If I've made a lot of money, my Social Security benefit will not grow as fast
as someone who made less money. And by the way, Medicare could very well
become the option of using my Medicare benefit to buy a private plan that I
like better. Medicare Advantage does that now.

These are not unreasonable changes to ask of someone like myself who is 25 or
30 years away from retirement, in exchange for leaving the program undisturbed
for the people that are on it now or about to retire, and ensuring that we do
not bankrupt our country and that this program still exists when my children
retire, when my grandchildren retire, when I retire. 


 Well, I'm sorry I didn't answer that part. So the thing is that my — my generation, someone my age would retire at 68. We would continue to allow it to increase the retirement age for future generations until it hit 70. And so my children would retire at 70. I would retire at 68. It would be a graduating scale over a period of time.

But again I'm talking about people like myself and Ted who are 45 years old.
We're years away from retirement. For people that are on it now, we don't have
to change it at all. If we don't do anything, we will have a debt crisis. It's
not a question of if. It is a question of when. In less than five years, only
17 percent of our budget will remain discretionary; 83 percent of the federal
budget in less than five years will all be spent on Medicare, Medicaid, the
interest on the debt.

That's — all of it will be eaten up by that. That's a debt crisis. And it will
be debilitating to our economy and our children deserve better than to inherit
a debt crisis. 


 No. And I — and I think you've outlined why. The numbers don't add up. You know, when I ran for the Senate in 2010, I came out and said we're going to have to make changes to Social Security, and everyone said that's the end of your campaign. In Florida, you can't talk about that, but people know that it's the truth here in Florida.

Fraud is not enough. Certainly, let's wipe out the fraud, but as you said, it
won't add up. You already gave those numbers. The second point is on foreign
aid. I hear that all the time as well. I'm against any sort of wasting of
money on foreign aid, but it's less than 1 percent of our federal budget. The
numbers don't add up.

The bottom line is we can't just continue to tip-toe around this and throw out
things like I'm going to get at fraud and abuse. Let's get rid of fraud, let's
get rid of abuse, let's be more careful about how we spend foreign aid. But
you still have hundreds of billions of dollars of deficit that you're going to
have to make up.

And here's the thing. If we do not do it, we will have a debt crisis. Not to
mention a crisis in Social Security and Medicare. Both parties have taken far
too long to deal with it. It is one of the major issues confronting America.
It's barely been asked in any of these debates. And we'd better deal with or
we're going to have to explain to our children why they inherited this
disaster. 


 Well, let me say, I know that a lot of people find appeal in the things Donald says cause he says what people wish they could say. The problem is, presidents can't just say anything they want. It has consequences, here and around the world. 

And so let me give you one. Two days ago, I met this extraordinary couple who
were on furlough because they are missionaries in Bangladesh. It's a very
tough place to be a missionary. It's Muslim.

And their safety and security very much relies upon friendly Muslims that live
along side them, that may not convert, but protect them and certainly look out
for them. And their mission field really are Muslims that are looking to
convert to Christianity as well. And they tell me that today they have a very
hostile environment in which to operate in because the news is coming out that
in America, leading political figures are saying that America doesn't like
Muslims. So this is a real impact. There's no doubt that radical Islam is a
danger in the world.

I can also tell you if you go to any national cemetery, especially Arlington,
you're going to see crescent moons there. If you go anywhere in the world
you're going see American men and women serving us in uniform that are
Muslims. 

And they love America. And as far as I know, no one on this stage has served
in uniform in the United States military. Anyone out there that has the
uniform of the United States on and is willing to die for this country is
someone that loves America. No matter what their religious background may be.


 Well, here we go. See, I'm not interested in being politically correct. I'm not interested in being politically correct. I'm interested in being correct. 

And in order to be correct on this issue, here's the bottom line. We do work.
There is — Islam has a major problem on its hands. It has a significant
percentage of its adherents, particular in the Sunni faith but also in the
Shia, who have been radicalized. And are willing to fly planes into a building
and kill innocent people.

There is no doubt about that. It is also true if you look around the world at
the challenges we face, we are going to have to work together with other —
with Muslims, who do not — who are not radicals. We're going to have to work
with the Jordanian kingdom.

We're going to have to work with the Saudis. We're going to have to work with
the Gulf kingdoms. We're going to have to work with the Egyptians to defeat,
for example, ISIS.



It will take a Sunni Arab movement to defeat them.

And so I think you can be correct without meaning to be politically correct.
We are going to have to work with people of the Muslim faith even as Islam
itself faces a serious crisis within it of radicalization.


 No, of course not. And we don't have to in order to defeat terrorists. The way you defeat terrorists is pretty straightforward. It's difficult to do, but it has to be done. When I'm president of the United States, the best intelligence agencies in the world that right now have been hamstrung. They're going to be expanded. And the best intelligence agencies in the world are going to find terrorists.

And then the best military in the world, which needs to be rebuilt because —
because Barack Obama is gutting our military. He's going to leave us with the
smallest Army since the end of World War II, and the smallest Navy in a
century, and the smallest Air Force we've ever had.

We are going to rebuild that military and that military is going to find the
terrorists and destroy them. And if we capture any of these terrorists alive,
they're not going to have the right to remain silent. And they're not going to
go to a courtroom in Manhattan. They're going to go to Guantanamo Bay, Cuba
and we will find out everything they know and we'll do so legally.



 Well, that's undeniable. First of all, they've said, they've encouraged people to do so. And you've seen the speeches of the Palestinian Authority president how glorious this is that they're doing these sorts of things.

But let me go back for a moment. The policy Donald has outlined, I don't know
if he realizes, is an anti-Israeli policy. Maybe that's not your intent but
here's why it is an anti-Israeli policy. There is no peace deal possible with
the Palestinians at this moment. There just isn't. 

Because there's no one to negotiate with. The Palestinian Authority is not
interested in a serious deal and they are now in union with Hamas, an
organization whose specific purpose is the destruction of the Jewish state.
Every time that Israel has turned over territory of any kind, be is Gaza, or
now in Judea and Sumaira, it is used as a launching pad to attack Israel. And
that's what will happen again.

These groups are not interested in a deal with Israel. What they are
interested in is ultimately removing the Jewish state and occupying its entire
territory.



So maybe in 30 years the conditions will exist, but they do not exist now.


 And To have a president forcing the Israelis to the table is harmful to the Israeli and emboldens Israel's enemies.


 Well, first let me say that one out of four calls to our office is about a veteran here in Florida that's struggling with the V.A. my brother is a veteran. He's struggling with the V.A.

The other day, we heard this horrible story. It was a headline in USA Today,
and it said, "Calls to the V.A. Suicide Hotline Went to Voicemail." Well,
about a few days ago, we now found out that one of the gentlemen — one of the
veterans who left a voicemail committed suicide. And they happened to call him
back the day after he died.

People need to be held accountable for this. One of the things I'm proudest of
is that in my time in the U.S. Senate working with Jeff Miller here from
Florida in a bipartisan way, and I'll give him credit — Bernie Sanders was a
part of this — we passed a V.A. accountability bill. And what it did is it
created now a law that gives the V.A. secretary, because of the law I passed,
it gives the V.A. secretary the power to fire people that aren't doing a good
job.

Senior executives should be held accountable if the V.A. outreach isn't
working. The problem is no one's being held accountable. Even after we passed
that law, no one's been fired for no outreach. No one's been fired for calls
going to the voicemail. No one's been disciplined. No one's been demoted.

When I'm president of the United States, if you work at the V.A. and you are
not doing a good job, you will be fired from your job at the V.A. 


 Well, I would love the relationship between Cuba and the United States to change. But it will require Cuba to change, at least its government. Today, it has not. The fact of the matter is that after these changes were made — after these changes were made, there are now millions and hundreds of millions of dollars that will flow to the Castro regime.

It will now allow them to become set permanent and in stone. They will now be
able to carry out a transition where the military continues to run the country
there. They'll put a puppet figure forward as their new president. And nothing
will change for the Cuban people.

There has not been a single democratic opening; not a single change on the
island in human rights. In fact, things are worse than they were before this
opening. The only thing that's changed as a result of this opening is that now
the Cuban government has more sources of money from which to build out their
repressive apparatus and maintain themselves there permanently.

And we asked nothing in return. Compare that to the changes that were required
in Burma. And by no means is Burma a perfect country. But at least when there
was a democratic opening to Burma, they were required to make some democratic
openings. When there was a diplomatic opening, it required democratic opening.
And today, the former minority party is now the majority party in their
legislative body.

He asked nothing in return and we are getting nothing in return. And Cuba and
its regime remains an anti-American communist dictatorship, helped North Korea
evade U.N. sanctions. It's harboring fugitives of American justice, including
people stealing our Medicare money and moving back to Cuba, all in exchange
for nothing. 


 All right, first of all, the embassy is the former consulate. It's the same building. So it could just go back to being called a consulate. We don't have to close it that way. Second of all, I don't know where Cuba is going to use, but if they sue us in a court in Miami, they're going to lose. 

Third, on the issue of a good deal, I know what the good deal. I'll tell you
what the good deal now, it's already codified. Here's a good deal — Cuba has
free elections, Cuba stops putting people in jail for speaking out, Cuba has
freedom of the press, Cuba kicks out the Russians from Lourdes and kicks out
the Chinese listening station in Berupal Cuba stops helping North Korea evade
U.N. sanctions, Cuba takes all of those fugitives of America justice,
including that cop killer from New Jersey, and send her back to the United
States and to jail where she belongs. And you know what? Then we can have a
relationship with Cuba. That's a good deal. 


 Well, sure if the climate is changing and one of the reasons is because the climate has always been changing. 

There's never been a time when the climate has not changed. I think the
fundamental question for a policy maker is, is the climate changing because of
something we are doing and if so, is there a law you can pass to fix it?

So on the issue of flooding in Miami, it's caused by two things. Number one,
south Florida is largely built on land that was once a swamp. And number two,
because if there is higher sea levels or whatever it may be happening, we do
need to deal with that through mitigation.

And I have long supported mitigation efforts. But as far as a law that we can
pass in Washington to change the weather, there's no such thing. 

On the contrary, there is laws they want us to pass. There are laws they want
to us pass that would be devastating for our economy or these programs like
what the president has put in with the Clean Power Act or all these sorts of
things that he's forcing down our throats on the war on coal.

Let me tell you who is going to pay the price of that? Americans are going to
pay the price of that. The cost of doing that is going to be rammed down the
throats of the American consumer, the single parent, the working families who
are going to see increases in the cost of living.

The businesses who are going to leave America because it's more expensive to
do business here than anywhere else.

And you know what passing those laws would have — what impact it would have on
the environment? Zero, because China is still going to be polluting and India
is still going to be polluting at historic levels. So, I am in favor of a
clean environment. My children live in South Florida. My family is being
raised here. I want this to be a safe and clean place, but these laws some
people are asking us to pass will do nothing for the environment and they will
hurt and devastate our economy.


 I would say to him that there is no law that they want us to pass that would have any impact on that. If we pass — if you took the gift list of all of these groups that are asking us to pass these laws and did every single one of them, there would be no change in our environment. Sea level would still rise. All these other things that are happening would continue to go on for a lot of different reasons.

One, because America is not a planet. It's a country. And number two, because
these other countries like India and China are more than making up in carbon
emissions for whatever we could possibly cut. Here's what he will immediately
— and Mayor Regalado is a great mayor and a good friend — but here's what he's
going to immediately going to start hearing from.

He will immediately start hearing from families in South Florida who are
barely making it by, and now their electric bill went up $20 or $30 a month
because we just made it more expensive to generate power. That cost will be
passed on to working families. I am not going to destroy the U.S. economy for
a law that will do nothing for our environent. 


 I do. A couple of points. The first is, I'm concerned about violence in general in this society. And by the way, the first people that are facing that violence are our law enforcement officers. And they deserve our respect and they deserve our thanks for everything they do for us.

On the issue of anger. Yes, people are angry. Of course they're angry. Every
institution in America has been failing us for the better part of 20 years or
30 years. But leadership is not about using the anger, leadership is about
using the anger to motivate us, not to define us. But to motivate us to take
action. Being here in Miami is special. My grandfather lived with us most of
his life while I was growing up. And he would sit on the porch of our home and
tell me all kinds of stories and things I learned about history.

My grandfather was born in 1899 before there were airplanes in the sky. One
night in the summer of 1969, he watched a man set foot on the moon.



You know what he said when he saw that? He said Americans can do anything.
Americans can do anything. There is no problem before us we cannot solve and
we can solve it if we come together in a serious way, in this generation.


 And embrace all of the principles that made us great.


 Let me tell you what this election is about for me. And I get all the delegate math and all that debate. Let me tell you what's about for me. On Tuesday night, I didn't do as well, obviously, as I wanted to. And I was a little bit disappointed when I got home.

And my wife told me a story that night, which is the reason why I can get up
the next day and keep fighting. There's a gentleman here in South Florida who
just got out of surgery. And his doctors told him he needs to be home resting.
But every afternoon, he takes his little aluminum chair and he sits outside of
an early polling center and holds a sign that says "Marco Rubio."

Because for him, I symbolize all the sacrifices that his generation made so
their children could have a better life than themselves 

That gentleman has not given up on me and I am not going to give up on him. I
am going to work tirelessly every single day......because this
election is too important. What's at stake is the future of this country. And
I believe — I believe that at the end of this process this nation will make
the right choice because I've always believed that God has blessed America,
that God's hand is upon this country and that its greatest days are yet to
come. 


 Well, I think you can be flexible about ideas, you shouldn't be flexible about your principles. About when it comes to ideas and working with people, I have a record of having done that.

Listen, on the issue of higher education, I'm the only one that continually
talks about student loan debt because I owed over $100,000 of student loan
debt. So I know this is a major issue. And all my ideas that deal with higher
education are bipartisan.

The VA Accountability Act that I passed I did it on a — on a bipartisan basis.
The sanctions that I helped — that I imposed on Hezbollah I did it on a
bipartisan basis. The Girls Count Act that deals with human trafficking, we
did that on a bipartisan basis.

But I also want to be frank. There are issues we're going to have to have an
election over. When it comes to repealing and replaces Obamacare, that's not
going to be bipartisan. When it comes to reducing the tax burdens on
Americans, that's not going to be bipartisan. When it comes to shrinking the
size of the federal bureaucracy,that's probably not going to be bipartisan.

There are issues we can work together on and we should, but there are
fundamental issues about the proper role of government. And on those issues, I
will fight anyone who wants to expand government, raise taxes, or weaken our
military. 


 It's great to be here, back at home in Miami. It's hard to believe that just two decades ago, my father was just a bartender working in the city. And now his son stands on this stage, here, as a candidate for the highest office in the land. My parents never wanted me to go into politics or in particular or anything else. They just wanted me to have the opportunity to live out all the dreams they once had for themselves. And that was possible because America is a special country.

But that was not an accident. America is great because each generation before
us did what needed to be done. They solved their problems, they confronted
their challenges. They embraced their opportunities. And for over two
centuries, each generation has left the next better off.

And now the moment has arrived for our generation to do our part. And I'm
telling you tonight, if you vote for me, here in Florida and everywhere across
this country on Tuesday, when I'm elected president, this generation will do
it's part.

We will do whatever it takes to ensure that our children inherit from us, what
we inherited from our parents, the single greatest nation in the history of
all of mankind. 


