 My name is Martin O'Malley, former Mayor of Baltimore, former governor of Maryland, a life long democrat, and most importantly, a husband, and a father. 

My wife Katie and I have four great kids, Grace, and Tara, and William and
Jack. And, like you, there is nothing we wouldn't do to give them healthier
and better lives. There are some things that I have learned to do better in
life than others. And, after 15 years of executive experience, I have learned
how to be an effective leader.

Whether it was raising the minimum wage, making our public schools the best in
America, passing marriage equality, the DREAM Act, and comprehensive gun
safety legislation, I have learned how to get things done because I am very
clear about my principals.

Thanks to President Obama, our country has come a long way since the Wall
Street crash of 2008. Our country's doing better, we are creating jobs again.
But we elected a president, not a magician, and there is urgent work that
needs to be done right now. For there is a — deep injustice, an economic
injustice that threatens to tear our country apart, and it will not solve
itself. Injustice does not solve itself.

What I'm talking about is this, our middle class is shrinking. Our poor
families are becoming poorer, and 70 percent of us are earning the same, or
less than we were 12 years ago. We need new leadership, and we need action.
The sort of action that will actually make wages go up again for all American
families.

Our economy isn't money, it's people. It's all of our people, and so we must
invest in our country, and the potential of our kids to make college a debt
free option for all of our families, instead of settling our kids with a
lifetime of crushing debt.

And, we must square our shoulders to the great challenge of climate change and
make this threat our opportunity. The future is what we make of it. We are all
in this together. And, the question in this election is whether you and I
still have the ability to give our kids a better future. I believe we do, that
is why I am running for president, and I need your help.

Thank you. 


 Yes, actually, I believe what she said was that there's a lot of policies that have led to this unrest. 

But, Anderson, when I ran for mayor of Baltimore in 1999...


 Well, let's talk about this a little bit. One of the things that was not reported during that heartbreaking night of unrest in Baltimore was that arrests had actually fallen to a 38-year low in the year prior to the Freddie Gray's tragic death. 

Anderson, when I ran for mayor of Baltimore back in 1999, it was not because
our city was doing well. It was because we allowed ourselves to become the
most violent, addicted, and abandoned city in America.

And I ran and promised people that together we could turn that around. And we
put our city on a path to reduce violent crime, or part one (ph) crime by more
than any other major city in America over the next 10 years.

I did not make our city immune to setbacks. But I attended a lot of funerals,
including one for a family of seven who were firebombed in their sleep for
picking up the phone in a poor African-American neighborhood and calling the
police because of drug dealers on their corner.

We've saved over a thousand lives in Baltimore in the last 15 years of people
working together. And the vast majority of them were young and poor and black.
It wasn't easy on any day. But we saved lives and we gave our city a better
future, improving police and community relations every single day that I was
in office.


 Well, I think the key word in your followup there was the word "settle." That's true. It was settled. Arrests peaked in 2003, Anderson, but they declined every year after that as we restored peace in our poorer neighborhoods so that people could actually walk and not have to worry about their kids or their loved ones of being victims of violent crime. 

Look, none of this is easy. None of us has all the answers. But together as a
city, we saved a lot of lives. It was about leadership. It was about
principle. And it was about bringing people together.


 Thank you. 


 And, Anderson, I also had to overcome a lot of opposition in the leadership of my own party to get this done. Look, it's fine to talk about all of these things — and I'm glad we're talking about these things — but I've actually done them. 

We passed comprehensive gun safety legislation, not by looking at the pollings
or looking at what the polls said. We actually did it. And, Anderson, here
tonight in our audience are two people that make this issue very, very real.
Sandy and Lonnie Phillips are here from Colorado. And their daughter, Jessie,
was one of those who lost their lives in that awful mass shooting in Aurora.

Now, to try to transform their grief, they went to court, where sometimes
progress does happen when you file in court, but in this case, you want to
talk about a — a rigged game, Senator? The game was rigged. A man had sold
4,000 rounds of military ammunition to this — this person that killed their
daughter, riddled her body with five bullets, and he didn't even ask where it
was going.

And not only did their case get thrown out of court, they were slapped with
$200,000 in court fees because of the way that the NRA gets its way in our
Congress and we take a backseat. It's time to stand up and pass comprehensive
gun safety legislation as a nation. 


 Senator — Senator, excuse me. 




 Senator, it is not about rural — Senator, it was not about rural and urban. 


 Have you ever been to the Eastern Shore? Have you ever been to Western Maryland? We were able to pass this and still respect the hunting traditions of people who live in our rural areas. 


 And we did it by leading with principle, not by pandering to the NRA and backing down to the NRA. 


 And I have an F from the NRA, Senator. 


 Well, maybe that's a healthy thing.  


 ...Anderson, when the NRA wrote to everyone in our state — when the NRA wrote to members in our state and told people with hunting traditions lies about what our comprehensive gun safety legislation is, I wrote right back to them and laid out what it actually did. And that's why, not only did we pass it, but the NRA didn't... 


 ...dare to petition a referendum... 


 ...Because we built a public consensus... 


 Anderson, no president — no commander in chief — should take the military option off the table, even if most of us would agree that it should be the last option. 

What disturbed people so much about — and I would agree with Senator Sanders
on this — leading us into Iraq under false pretenses and telling us, as a
people, that there were weapons of mass destruction there was — was one of the
worst blunders in modern American history.

But the reason why people remain angry about it is because people feel like a
lot of our legislators got railroaded in a war fever and by polls. And I
remember being at a dinner shortly before that invasion. People were talking
at — and saying, "it'll take us just a couple years to rebuild democracy," and
I thought, "has this world gone mad?"

Whenever we go — and contrary to John Quincy Adams' advice — "searching the
world for monsters to destroy," and when we use political might to take a — at
the expense of democratic principle, we hurt ourselves, and we hurt our
.


 I believe that, as president, I would not be so quick to pull for a military tool. I believe that a no-fly zone in Syria, at this time, actually, Secretary, would be a mistake. 

You have to enforce no-fly zones, and I believe, especially with the Russian
air force in the air, it could lead to an escalation because of an accident
that we would deeply regret.

I support President Obama. I think we have to play a long game, and I think,
ultimately — you want to talk about blunders? I think Assad's invasion of
Syria will be seen as a blunder.


 Anderson, I think we are learning... 




 Anderson, I think there's lessons to be learned from Benghazi. And those lessons are that we need to do a much better job as a nation of having human intelligence on the ground so that we know who the emerging next generation leaders are that are coming up to replace a dictator when his time on this planet ends. 

And I believe that's what Chris Stevens was trying to do. But he did not have
the tools. We have failed as a country to invest in the human intelligence
that would allow us to make not only better decisions in Libya, but better
decisions in Syria today.

And it's a huge national security failing.


 I believe that nuclear Iran remains the biggest threat, along with the threat of ISIL; climate change, of course, makes cascading threats even more (inaudible). 


 I believe that now that we're finally having debates, Anderson, that we don't have to be defined by the email scandal, and how long — what the FBI's asking about. Instead, we can talk about affordable college, making college debt free, and all the issues. Which is why — and I see the chair of the DNC here, look how glad we are actually to be talking about the issues that matter the most to people around the kitchen table. 

We need to get wages to go up, college more affordable...


 ...we need to make American 100 percent clean electric by 2050. 


 Anderson, the point that the Black Lives Matter movement is making is a very, very legitimate and serious point, and that is that as a nation we have undervalued the lives of black lives, people of color. 

When I ran for Mayor of Baltimore — and we we burying over 350 young men ever
single year, mostly young, and poor, and black, and I said to our legislature,
at the time when I appeared in front of them as a mayor, that if we were
burying white, young, poor men in these number we would be marching in the
streets and there would be a different reaction.

Black lives matter, and we have a lot of work to do to reform our criminal
justice system, and to address race relations in our country. 


 Yes. Anderson, I want to associate myself with many of the items that the senator from Vermont mentioned, and I actually did them in our state. We raised the minimum wage, passed the living wage, invested more in infrastructure, went four years in a row without a penny's increase in college tuition. 

But there's another piece that Senator Sanders left out tonight, but he's been
excellent about underscoring that. And that is that we need to separate the
casino, speculative, mega-bank gambling that we have to insure with our money,
from the commercial banking — namely, reinstating Glass-Steagall.

Secretary Clinton mentioned my support eight years ago. And Secretary, I was
proud to support you eight years ago, but something happened in between, and
that is, Anderson, a Wall Street crash that wiped out millions of jobs and
millions of savings for families. And we are still just as vulnerable Paul
Volcker says today.

We need to reinstate Glass-Steagall and that's a huge difference on this stage
among us as candidates.


 Anderson, look, this is — the big banks — I mean, once we repealed Glass-Steagall back in the late 1999s (ph), the big banks, the six of them, went from controlling, what, the equivalent of 15 percent of our GDP to now 65 percent of our GDP. 

And — (inaudible) right before this debate, Secretary Clinton's campaign put
out a lot of reversals on positions on Keystone and many other things. But one
of them that we still have a great difference on, Madam Secretary, is that you
are not for Glass-Steagall.

You are not for putting a firewall between this speculative, risky shadow
banking behavior. I am, and the people of our country need a president who's
on their side, willing to protect the Main Street economy from recklessness on
Wall Street.

We have to fulfill...


 ...our promise. 


 And Juan Carlos — Juan Carlos... 


 Juan Carlos, I think what you've heard up here is some of the old thinking on immigration reform, and that's why it's gridlocked. We need to understand that our country is stronger in every generation by the arrival of new American immigrants. That is why I have put out a policy for comprehensive immigration reform, that is why I would go further than President Obama has on DACA, and DAPA. 

I mean, we are a nation of immigrants, we are made stronger by immigrants. Do
you think for a second that simply because somebody's standing in a broken que
on naturalization they're not going to go to the hospital, and that care isn't
going to fall on to our insurance rates? I am for a generous, compassionate
America that says we're all in this together. We need comprehensive


 ...immigration reform. It'll make wages go up in America $250 for every year... 


 Here. Here. 

(CHEERING) (APPLAUSE)


 Anderson, we actually did this in my state of Maryland. We passed...  


 We passed a state version of the DREAM Act... 

(CHEERING)


 ...And a lot of the xenophobes, the immigrant haters like some that we've heard like, Donald Trump, that carnival barker in the Republican party... 

(CHEERING) (APPLAUSE)


 Tried to mischaracterize it as free tuition for illegal immigrants. But, we took our case to the people when it was petitioned to referendum, and we won with 58 percent of the vote. The more our children learn, the more they will earn, and that's true of children who have yet to be naturalized... 


 ...but will become American citizens... 


 Anderson, Snowden put a lot of Americans' lives at risk. Snowden broke the law. Whistleblowers do not run to Russia and try to get protection from Putin. If he really believes that, he should be back here. 


 I would follow through on the promise that the American people thought we made as Democratic Party, to protect the Main Street economy from recklessness on Wall Street. I would push to separate out these too-big-to-jail, too-big-to-fail banks, and put in place Glass-Steagall, a modern Glass-Steagall that creates a firewall so that this wreckage of our economy can never happen again. 


 Anderson, I actually have talked about a revolution. What we need is a green energy revolution. We need to move America to a 100 percent clean electric grid by 2050 and create 5 million jobs along the way. 


 Well, actually, you know, we had this conversation. And I will share with you that I've traveled all around the country, Anderson, and there's two phrases I keep hearing again and again and again. And they're the phrases "new leadership" and "getting things done." 

We cannot be this dissatisfied with our gridlocked national politics and an
economy where 70 percent of us are earning the same or less than we were 12
years ago, and think that a resort to old names is going to move us forward.

I respect what Secretary Clinton and her husband have done for our country.
But our country needs new leadership to move forward.


 Yeah. 

Anna, I have put forward a plan — and I'm the only candidate, I believe, in
either party to do this — to move America forward to a 100 percent clean
electric grid by 2050.

We did not land a man on the moon with an all-of-the-above strategy. It was an
intentional engineering challenge, and we solved it as a nation. And our
nation must solve this one.

So I put forward the plan that would extend the investor tax credits for solar
and for wind. If you go across Iowa, you see that 30 percent of their energy
now comes from wind. We're here in Las Vegas, one of the most sustainable
cities in America, doing important things in terms of green building,
architecture and design.

We can get there as a nation, but it's going to require presidential
leadership. And as president, I intend to sign as my very first order in
office the — an order that moves us as a nation and dedicates our resources to
solving this problem and moving us to a 100 percent clean electric grid by
2050.


 We can do it. 


 Anderson, in our state, we actually expanded family leave. And I have to agree with Secretary Clinton and Senator Sanders. Look, the genius of our nation is that we find ways in every generation to include more of our people more fully in the economic life of our country, and we need to do that for our families, and especially so that women aren't penalized in having to drop out of the workforce. My wife, Katie, is here with our four kids. And, man, that was a juggle when we had little kids and — and keeping jobs and moving forwards. We would be a stronger nation economically if we had paid family leave. 


 Juan Carlos?  


 The National Rifle Association.  


 Anderson, thank you. 

I am very, very grateful to have been able to be on this stage with this
distinguished group of candidates tonight. And what you heard tonight,
Anderson, was a very, very — and all of you watching at home — was a very,
very different debate than from the sort of debate you heard from the two
presidential Republican debates. 

On this stage — on this stage, you didn't hear anyone denigrate women, you
didn't hear anyone make racist comments about new American immigrants, you
didn't hear anyone speak ill of another American because of their religious
belief.

What you heard instead on this stage tonight was an honest search for the
answers that will move our country forward, to move us to a 100 percent clean
electric energy grid by 2050, to take the actions that we have always taken as
Americans so that we can actually attack injustice in our country, employ more
of our people, rebuild our cities and towns, educate our children at higher
and better levels, and include more of our people in the economic, social, and
political life of our country.

I truly believe that we are standing on the threshold of a new era of American
progress. Unless you've become discouraged about our gridlock in Congress,
talk to our young people under 30, because you'll never find among them people
that want to bash immigrants or people that want to deny rights to gay
couples. 

That tells me we are moving to a more connected, generous, and compassionate
place, and we need to speak to the goodness within our country. 


 My heart, like all of us in this room, John, and all the people across our country, my hearts go out to the people of France in this moment of loss. Parents, and sons, and daughters and family members, and as our hearts go out to them and as our prayers go out to them, we must remember this, that this isn't the new face of conflict and warfare, not in the 20th century but the new face of conflict and warfare in the 21st century. 

And there is no nation on the planet better able to adapt to this change than
our nation. We must able to work collaboratively with others. We must
anticipate these threats before they happen. This is the new sort of
challenge, the new sort of threat that does, in fact, require new thinking,
fresh approaches and new leadership.

As a former mayor and a former governor, there was never a single day, John,
when I went to bed or woke up without realizing that this could happen in our
own country. We have a lot of work to do, to better prepare our nation and to
better lead this world into this new century.


 John, I would disagree with Secretary Clinton respectfully on this score. 

This actually is America's fight. It cannot solely be America's fight.

America is best when we work in collaboration with our allies. America is best
when we are actually standing up to evil in this world. And ISIS, make no
mistake about it, is an evil in this world.

ISIS has brought down a Russian airliner. ISIS has now attacked a western
democracy in -- in France. And we do have a role in this. Not solely ours, but
we must work collaboratively with other nations.

The great failing of these last 10 or 15 years, John, has been our failing of
human intelligence on the ground. Our role in the world is not to roam the
globe looking for new dictators to topple. Our role in the world is to make
ourselves a beacon of hope. Make ourselves stronger at home, but also our role
in the world, yes, is also to confront evil when it rises. We took out the
safe haven in Afghanistan, but now there is, undoubtedly, a larger safe haven
and we must rise to this occasion in collaboration and with alliances to
confront it, and invest in the future much better human intelligence so we
know what the next steps are.


 John, may I -- may I interject here? Secretary Clinton also said we -- it was not just the invasion of Iraq which Secretary Clinton voted for and has since said was a big mistake -- and, indeed, it was. 

But it was also the cascading effects that followed that. It was also the
disbanding of many elements of the Iraqi army that are now showing up as part
of ISIS. It was country after country without making the investment in human
intelligence to understand who the new leaders were and the new forces were
that are coming up.

We need to be much more far thinking in this new 21st century era of -- of
nation state failures and conflict. It's not just about getting rid of a
single dictator. It is about understanding the secondary and third
consequences that fall next.


 John, the world is a very dangerous place, but the world is not too dangerous of a place for the United States of America, provided we act according to our principles, provided we act intelligently. I mean, let's talk about this arc of instability that Secretary Clinton talked about. 

Libya is now a mess. Syria is a mess. Iraq is a mess. Afghanistan is a mess.
As Americans, we have shown ourselves to have the greatest military on the
face of the planet, but we are not so very good at anticipating threats and
appreciating just how difficult it is to build up stable democracies, to make
the investments and sustainable development that we must as a nation if we are
to attack the root causes of these sorts of instability.

And I wanted to add one other thing, John, and I think it's important for all
of us on this stage. I was in Burlington, Iowa. And a mom of a service member
of ours who served two duties in Iraq said, Governor O' Malley, please, when
you're with your other candidates and colleagues on stage, please don't use
the term 'boots on the ground'. Let's don't use the term 'boots on the
ground'.

My son is not a pair of boots on the ground. These are American soldiers and
we fail them when we fail to take into account what happens the day after a
dictator falls and when we fail to act with a whole of government approach
with sustainable development, diplomacy, and our economic power in alignment
with our principles.


 I believe calling it what it is, is to say radical jihadis. That's calling it what it is. But John, let's not fall into the trap of thinking that all of our Muslim American neighbors in this country are somehow our enemies here. They are our first line of defense. 

And we are going to be able to defeat ISIS on the ground there, as well as in
this world, because of the Muslim Americans in our country and throughout the
world who understand that this brutal and barbaric group is perverting the
name of a great world religion. And now, like never before, we need our Muslim
American neighbors to stand up and to -- and to be a part of this.


 That's right. 


 And may I point out that under Ronald Reagan's first term, the highest marginal rate was 70 percent. And in talking to a lot of our neighbors who are in that super wealthy, millionaire and billionaire category, a great numbers of them love their country enough to do more again in order to create more opportunity for America's middle class. 


 All right, Nancy, I really wish you'd come back to me on this on this one, John... 


 Because we have found a way to reduce hospital costs, so whenever we come... 


 Thank you. 




 Well, Mr. Cooney, we've actually been focusing on border security to the exclusion of talking about comprehensive immigration reform. 

In fact, if more border security and these -- and more and more deportations
were going to bring our Republican brothers and sisters to the table, it would
have happened long ago. The fact of the matter is -- and let's say it in our
debate, because you'll never hear this from that immigration-bashing carnival
barker, Donald Trump, the truth of the matter is... 

The truth of the matter is, net immigration from Mexico last year was zero.
Fact check me. Go ahead. Check it out. But the truth of the matter is, if we
want wages to go up, we've got to get 11 million of our neighbors out of off
the book shadow economy, and into the full light of an American economy.

That's what our parents and grandparents always did. That's what we need to do
as a nation.

Yes, we must protect our borders. But there is no substitute for having
comprehensive immigration reform with a pathway to citizenship for 11 million
people, many of whom have known no other country but the United States of
America. Our symbol is the Statue of Liberty. It is not a barbed wire fence.


 Kathie, this was not merely theory in Maryland. We actually did it. Not only were we the first state in the nation to pass a living wage. We were the first to pass a minimum wage. And the U.S. chamber of commerce, which hardly ever says nice things about Democratic governors anywhere, named our state number one for innovation and entrepreneurship. 

We defended the highest median income in the country. And so, look, the way
that -- a stronger middle class is actually the source of economic growth. And
if our middle class makes more money, they spend more money, and our whole
economy grows. We did it, and it worked, and nobody headed for the hills or
left the state because of it.


 $10.10 was all I could get the state to do by the time I left in my last year. But two of our counties actually went to $12.80 and their county executives, if they were here tonight, would also tell you that it works. 

The fact of the matter is, the more our people earn, the more money they
spend, and the more our whole economy grows. That's American capitalism.


 Didn't just happen. 


 Come on now. Yeah, but look. It should always be going up. Again, with all do respect to Secretary Clinton... 


 I think we need to stop taking our advice from economists on Wall Street... 


 ... And start taking advice... 


 John, please, it's-- personal privilege, John. 


 John, John, 


 Well, I'll tell you what, I've said this before. I don't -- I believe that we actually need some new economic thinking in the White House. And I would not have Robert Rubin or Larry Summers, with all due respect, Secretary Clinton, to you and to them, back on my council of economic advisers. 


 They are the architects. Sure, we'll have an inclusive group but I won't be taking my orders from Wall Street. And look, let me say this. I put out a proposal. I was on the front lines when people lost their homes, when people lost their jobs. I was on the front lines as a governor fighting against -- fighting that battle. 

Our economy was wrecked by the big banks of Wall Street. And Secretary
Clinton, when you put out your proposal on Wall Street, it was greeted by many
as, quote, unquote, "Weak tea". It is weak tea. It is not what the people
expect of our country.

We expect that our president will protect the main street economy from
excesses on Wall Street. And that's why Bernie's right. We need to reinstate a
modern version of Glass-Steagall and we should have done it already.



 Oh, yes there is. [_laughter_


 John, this is another one of those examples. Like we have a -- we have a lot of work to do and we're the only nation on the planet that buries as many of our people from gun violence as we do. 

In my own state, after the children in that Connecticut classroom were gunned
down, we passed comprehensive gun safety legislation with background checks,
ban on assault weapons, and Senator, I think we do need to repeal that
immunity that you granted to the gun industry.

But Secretary Clinton, you've been on three sides of this. When you ran in
2000, you said that we needed federal robust regulations. Then, in 2008, you
were portraying yourself as Annie Oakley and saying that we don't need those
regulations on the federal level and now you're coming back around here.

So John, there's a big difference between leading by polls and leading with
principle. We got it done in my state by leading with principal and that's
what we need to do as a party for comprehensive gun safety.


 But it's a lot safer. It's saved a lot of lives along the way, Senator. 


 I'd like to take a matter of personal privilege here... 


 John, I think somewhere between... 


 John, there is not a serious economist who would disagree that the six big banks of Wall Street have taken on so much power and that all of us are still on the hook to bail them out on their bad bets. That's not capitalism, Secretary Clinton. That's crony capitalism. That's a wonderful business model. If you place bad bets, the taxpayers bail you out. But if you place good ones, you pocket it. 

Look, I don't believe there's the model -- there's lots of good people that
work in finance, Secretary Sanders, but Secretary Clinton, we need to step up
and we need to protect Main Street from Wall Street and you can't do that by
-- by campaigning as the candidate of Wall Street. I am not the candidate of
Wall Street...


 ... and I encourage everybody watching this tonight to please, acknowledge that by going online at martinomalley.com and help me wage this campaign for real American capitalism.  


 John, I think the -- I think the call of your question is how can we improve both public safety in America and race relations in America, understanding how very intertwined both of those issues are in a very, very difficult and painful way for us as a people. 

Look, the truth of the matter is that we should all feel a sense of
responsibility as Americans to look for the things that actually work to save
and redeem lives, and to do more of them, and to stop doing the things that
don't.

For my part, that's what I have done in 15 years of experience as a mayor and
as a governor. We restored voting rights to 52,000 people. We decriminalized
possession of small amounts of marijuana.

I repealed the death penalty. And we also put in place a civilian review
board. We reported openly discourtesy, and lethal force and brutality
complaints.

This is something that -- and I put forward a new agenda for criminal justice
reform that is informed by that experience. So as president, I would lead
these efforts, and I would do so with more experience and probably the
attendance at more grave sites than any of the three of us on this stage when
it comes to urban crime, loss of lives.

And the truth is I have learned on a very daily basis that, yes, indeed, black
lives matter.


 Okay, thank you. I have -- look, I would agree with much of what Senator Sanders says, Kevin. 

I believe that actually affordable college, debt-free college is the goal that
we need to attain as a nation. And, unlike my two distinguished colleagues on
this stage, I actually made college more affordable and was the only state
that went four years in a row without a penny's increase to college tuition.

I respectfully disagree with Senator Sander's approach. I believe that the
goal should be debt-free college. I believe that our Federal Government needs
to do more on pell grants. States need to stop cutting higher education, and
we should create a new block grant program that keeps the states' skin in the
game, and we should lower these outrageous interest rates that parents and
kids are being charged by their own government. 7 percent and 8 percent to go
to college?

I mean, my dad went to college on a G.I. Bill after coming home from Japan,
flying 33 missions. My daughters went to college on a mountain of bills.

We were proud of them on graduation day, but we're going to be proud every
month for the rest of our natural lives. It -- it doesn't need to be that way.
We can have debt-free college in the United States.


 May I jump in here for 30 seconds on health care? 


 John, I don't think that there is a crisis at the state or local level that really you can point to and say, therefore, I am prepared for the sort of crises that any man or woman who is commander in chief of our country has to deal with. 

But I can tell you this. I can tell you that as a mayor and as a governor, I
learned certain disciplines which I believe are directly applicable to that
very, very powerful and most important of all jobs in the United States, the
president, whose first and primary duty is to protect the people of our
country.

You learn that threats always change. You learn to create a security cabinet.
You learn to create feedback mechanisms. You learn to constantly evaluate and
understand the nature of the threats that you are being faced with.

I have been tried under many different emergencies and I can tell you that in
each of those emergencies, whether they were inflicted by drug gangs, whether
they were natural emergencies, I knew how to lead and I knew how to govern
because I know how to manage people in a crisis and be very clear about the
goal of protecting human life.


 John, thank you, and to all of the people in Iowa, for the role you have performed in this presidential selection process. 

If you believe that our country's problems and the threats that we face in
this world can only be met with new thinking, new and fresh approaches, then I
ask you to join my campaign.

Go on to martinomalley.com. No hour is too short, no dollar too small. If you
-- we will not solve our nation's problems by resorting to the divisive
ideologies of our past, or by returning to polarizing figures from our past.

We are at the threshold of a new era of American progress, but it's going to
require that we act as Americans, based on our principles, here at home,
making an economy that works for all of us. And, also, acting according to our
principles and constructing a new foreign policy of engagement and
collaboration, and doing a much better job of identifying threats before they
back up into military corners.

There is no challenge too great for the United States to confront, provided we
have the ability and the courage to put forward new leadership that can move
us to those better and safer and more prosperous days. I need your help. Thank
you very, very much. 


 Martha, thank you. Tonight we have a different debate than the debates that we have been allowed to have so far, because tonight is different because of this reason, that in the course of this presidential campaign America has again been attacked by jihadi terrorists, American lives taken from us. So, yes, we must talk about our ideas to move our economy forward, but the first job of the president of the United States is to protect the people of the United States.

I visited with a number of our neighbors in Northern Virginia at a mosque last
Friday. And as I looked out there at the eyes of our neighbors, I also looked
in the eyes of veterans. I looked into the eyes of Boy Scouts. I looked into
the eyes of moms and dads who would do anything in their power to protect our
country's values and our freedoms.

What our nation needs right now is to realize that, while we face a terrible
danger, we also face a different sort of political danger. And that is the
danger that democracies find themselves susceptible to when unscrupulous
leaders try to turn us upon each other. What our country needs right now is
new leadership that will bring us together around the values that unite us and
the freedoms that we share as Americans.

We will rise to challenge of ISIL and we will rise together to the challenges
that we face in our economy. But we will only do so if we hold true to the
values and the freedoms that unite us, which means we must never surrender
them to terrorists, must never surrender our Americans values to racist, must
never surrender to the fascist pleas of billionaires with big mouths.

We are a better country than this. Our enduring symbol is not the barbed wire
fence, it is the Statue of Liberty. And America's best days are in front of us
if we move forward together. 


 Yeah, David, look, for crying out loud, our country has been attacked, we have pressing issues involving how we're going to adapt to this changing era of warfare.

Our economy -- people are working harder and being left behind. You want to
know why things don't get done in Washington? Because for the last 24 hours,
with those issues being so urgent to people as they tune in tonight, wondering
how they're even be able to buy presents for their kids.

Instead, we're listening to the bickering back and forth. Maybe that is normal
politics in Washington, but that is not the politics of higher purpose that
people expect from our party.

We need to address our security issues, we need to address the economic issues
around the kitchen table. And if people want a more high-minded politics and
want to move our country forward, go on to martinomalley.com and help my
campaign move our country forward. 


 David, I am the very first... 


 I am the very first post-9/11 mayor and the very first post-9/11 governor. I understand, from the ground up, that when attacks like San Bernardino happen, when attacks like the attacks of 9/11 happen, that when people call 911, the first people to show up are the local first responders.

Many of the things Secretary Clinton said are absolutely true, but they
underscore a lack of investment that we have, as a nation, failed to make over
these last 15 years in intelligence gathering, intelligence analysis,
intelligence sharing. Not only in theater, in Syria and Iraq and other places
where we embalk  ourselves in toppling dictators without having any idea
what comes next, but here in the homeland, as we protect people from this
threat of the lone wolves and these changing tactics and strategies.

I believe that what's happened here is that the president had us on the right
course, but it's a lack of battle tempo. We have to increase the battle tempo,
we have to bring a modern way of getting things done and forcing the sharing
of information and do a much better job of acting on it in order to prevent
these sorts of attacks in the future.


 Martha, if I may... 


 Excuse me, no.


 I am the only person on this stage who has actually... 


 ... passed comprehensive gun safety legislation with a ban on combat assault weapons, David.

And, look, there are profound differences... 

Senator Sanders voted against the Brady Bill. Senator Sanders voted to give
immunity to gun dealers. And Senator Sanders voted against even research
dollars to look into this public health issue.

Secretary Clinton changes her position on this every election year, it seems,
having one position in 2000 and then campaigning against President Obama and
saying we don't need federal standards.

Look, what we need on this issue is not more polls. We need more principle.
When ISIL does training videos that say the easiest way to get a combat
assault weapon in the United States of America is at a gun show, then we
should all be waking up. We need comprehensive gun safety legislation and a
ban on assault weapons.


 Because, Martha, it would prevent people like the guy that just got charged yesterday perhaps from being able to buy combat assault weapons. You know, we are the only nation, only developed nation on the planet... 


 No, Martha, I would not. And that's not what we did in Maryland. But you know what we did in Maryland? We overcame the NRA's objections. We overcame all of the crowds that were coming down there.

We did our own rallies. And at least if we enact these laws in a prospective
way, we can address a major vulnerability in our country. ISIL videos, ISIL
training videos are telling lone wolves the easiest way to buy a combat
assault weapon in America is at a gun show.

And it's because of the flip-flopping, political approach of Washington that
both of my two colleagues on this stage have represented there for the last
forty years.


 I am telling the truth.


 Martha, may I -- Martha, may I... 


 Can I share this quick story?


 Oh. All right.


 When you come back to me, I'll share that story.


 I believe that we should never give up our privacy; never should give up our freedoms in exchange for a promise of security. We need to figure this out together. We need a collaborative approach. We need new leadership.

The way that things work in the modern era is actually to gather people around
the table and figure these things out. The federal government should have to
get warrants. That's not some sort of passé you know, antique sort of
principle that safeguards our freedoms.

But at the same time with new technologies I believe that the people creating
these projects -- I mean these products also have an obligation to come
together with law enforcement to figure these things out; true to our American
principles and values.

My friend Kashif, who is a doctor in Maryland; back to this issue of our
danger as a democracy of turning against ourselves. He was putting his 10 and
12-year-old boys to bed the other night. And he is a proud American Muslim.
And one of his little boys said to him, "Dad, what happens if Donald Trump
wins and we have to move out of our homes?" These are very, very real issues.
this is a clear and present danger in our politics within.

We need to speak to what unites us as a people; freedom of worship, freedom of
religion, freedom of expression. And we should never be convinced to give up
those freedoms in exchange for a promise of greater security; especially from
someone as untried and as incompetent as Donald Trump.


 No, what I would say is this is look, I was the first of the three of us to call for America to accept the 65,000 refugees we were asked to accept. And if this humanitarian crisis increases, we should accept more.


 David, there are wider vulnerabilities than when it comes to refugees. I met recently with some members of the Chaldean Christian communities and the wait times are a year, 18 months, 24 months. There is a pretty excruciating process that refugees go through. We need to invest more in terms of the other sort of visas and the other sort of waivers.


 What these Chaldean families told me was that their families in Syria, when ISIS moves into their town, they actually paint a red cross across the door and mark their homes for demolition, and that tells the family you'd better get out now. The sort of genocide and brutality that the victims are suffering, these are not the perpetrators.

We need to be the nation whose enduring symbol is the Statue of Liberty, and
we need to act like the great country we are, according to our values.


 Well, we have invested nowhere near what we should be investing in human intelligence on the ground. And what I'm talking about is not only the covert CIA intelligence; I'm also talking about diplomatic intelligence. I mean, we've seen time and time again, especially in this very troubled region of nation-state failures, and then we have no idea who the next generation of leaders are that are coming forward.

So what I would say is not only do we need to be thinking in military terms,
but we do our military a disservice when we don't greatly dial up the
investment that we are making in diplomacy and human intelligence and when we
fail to dial up properly, the role of sustainable development in all of this.
As president, I would make the administrator of USAID an actual cabinet
member. We have to act in a much more whole of government approach, as General
Dempsey said.

And I do believe, and I would disagree somewhat with one of my colleagues,
this is a genocidal threat. They have now created a safe haven in the vacuum
that we allowed to be partly and because of our blunders, to be created to be
created in the areas of Syria and Iraq. We cannot allow safe havens, and as a
leader of moral nations around this Earth, we need to come up with new
alliances and new ways to prepare for these new sorts of threats, because
Martha, this will not be the last region where nation-states fail.

And you've seen a little bit of this emerging in the -- in the African Union
and the things that they have done to better stabilize Somalia. We need to pay
attention here in Central America as well. So this is the new type of threats
that we're facing and we need to lead as a nation in confronting it and
putting together new alliances and new coalitions.


 I'd like to offer a... 


 May I offer a different generation's perspective on this?


 During the Cold War -- during the Cold War, we got into a bad habit of always looking to see who was wearing the jersey of the communists, and who was wearing the U.S. jersey. We got into a bad habit of creating big bureaucracies, old methodologies, to undermine regimes that were not friendly to the United States. Look what we did in Iran with Mossadegh. And look at the results that we're still dealing with because of that. I would suggest to you that we need to leave the Cold War behind us, and we need to put together new alliances and new approaches to dealing with this, and we need to restrain ourselves.

I mean, I know Secretary Clinton was gleeful when Gadhafi was torn apart. And
the world, no doubt is a better place without him. But look, we didn't know
what was happening next. And we fell into the same trap with Assad, saying --
as if it's our job to say, Assad must go.

We have a role to play in this world. But we need to leave the Cold War and
that sort of antiquated thinking behind.


 I believe that we need to focus on destroying ISIL. That is the clear and present danger. And I believe that we can springboard off of this new U.N. resolution, and we should create, as Secretary Clinton indicated, and I agree with that, that there should be a political process.

But we shouldn't be the ones declaring that Assad must go. Where did it ever
say in the Constitution, where is it written that it's the job of the United
States of America or its secretary of State to determine when dictators have
to go?

We have a role to play in this world. But it is not the world -- the role of
traveling the world looking for new monsters to destroy. 


 Look these are the things that we did in own state through the recession. We actually passed a living wage. We raised the minimum wage. We actually raised it to the highest goals of any state in the nation also in minority and women participant goals because we understood that the way you reinvigorate and make fair market American capitalism work, is to make the choices and the investments that include more people more full in the economic success of your state.

All through the recession, we defended the highest median income in America
and the second highest median income for African American families. How? By
actually doing more for education. We increased education funding by 37
percent.

We were the only state in American that went four years in a row without a
penny increase in college tuition. We invested more in our infrastructure and
we squared our shoulders to the great business opportunity of this era and
that is moving our economy to a 100 percent clean electric energy future. We
created 2,000 new jobs in the solar industry and we fought every single day to
adopt more inclusive economic practices.


 So David, the conclusion of all of those things is this; they weren't hopes, they weren't dreams, they weren't amorphous goals out there. We actually took action to do these things and as president, I have put forward 15 strategic goals that will make wages go up again for all American families. Universal national service is an option for every kid in America to cut youth employment.

And I'm the only candidate on this stage to put forward a new agenda for
America's cities so we can employ more people in the heart of great American
cities and get them back to work.


 Look, I look at our economy as an ecosystem. And the fact of the matter is that the more fully people participate, the more our workers earn, the more they will spend, the more our economy will grow. And most heads of businesses -- large, medium and small -- understand that.

But there is a better way forward than either of those offered by my two
opponents here on this stage. We're not going to fix what ails our economy,
we're not going to make wages go up for everyone by either trying to replace
American capitalism with socialism -- which, by the way, the rest of the world
is moving away from -- nor will we fix it by submitting to sort of Wall
Street-directed crony capitalism.

And for my part, I have demonstrated the ability to have the backbone to take
on Wall Street in ways that Secretary Clinton never, ever has. In fact, in the
last debate, very shamefully, she tried to hide her cozy relationship with
Wall Street big banks by invoking the attacks of 9/11.

I believe that the way forward for our country is to actually reinvigorate our
antitrust department with the directive to promote fair competition. There's
mergers that are happening in every aspect of our country that is bad for
competition and it's bad for -- for upward mobility of wages.

And the worst type of concentration, Secretary Clinton, is the concentration
of the big banks, the big six banks that you went to and spoke to and told
them, oh, you weren't responsible for the crash, not by a long shot.

And that's why today you still cannot support, as I do, breaking up the big
banks and making sure that we pass a modern-day Glass- Steagall, like we had
in late 1999, before it was repealed and led to the crash, where so many
millions of families lost their jobs and their homes. And I was on the front
lines of that, looking into the eyes of my neighbors...


 Yes, this one falls under the category of, I have actually done this. As a governor we actually made the greater investments so that we could go four years in a row without a penny's increase to college tuition.

My plan actually goes further than Senator Sanders because a big chunk of the
cost is actually room and board and books and fees. So as a nation we need to
increase what we invest in Pell grants. Yes, we need to make it easier for
parents to refinance.

But states need to do more as well. And I propose a block grant program that
will keep the states in the game as well. I believe that all of our kids
should go into an income-based repayment plan.

I'm joined tonight by two daughters, Tara and Grace. My oldest daughter's a
teacher. Um, and their mother's here as well. We were proud of them on
graduation day, weren't we, Katie? And we're going to be proud every month for
the rest of our lives.

I mean, we had to borrow so much money to send them to college and were not
the only ones. There're families all across America who aren't able to
contribute to our economy because of this crushing student loan. I also
propose that we can pay for this with a tax on high volume trades and we need
to because my dad came to college after World War II on a G.I. Bill.

But today, we're the only nation on the planet that's saddling our kids with a
lifetime of bills. That's a drag on the economy. It's one of the key
investments we need to make. I was flattered that Secretary Clinton two months
later borrowed so many of my proposals to incorporate into hers. And in our
party, unlike the Republican party, we actually believe that the more our
people learn, the more they will earn and higher education should be a right
for every kid.


 No, I've never made a promise like that. But unlike either of these two fine people, I've actually balanced a budget every single year. I was one -- I was the only -- one of only seven states that had a AAA bond rating. By the time I left, the average tax burden on Maryland families was the same as when I started.

But I did pass a more progressive income tax and asked the highest-earning
people to pay another 14 percent. David, look, this is the big -- I agree, by
the way, that we should have paid family leave. And I agree with Senator
Sanders on that. And just like Social Security and unlike the Republicans, I
think we should actually expand Social Security and increase average monthly
benefits.

But look, there's one big entitlement we can no longer afford as a country,
and that is the entitlement that the super wealthy among us, those earning
more than a million dollars, feel that they're entitled to pay lower income
tax rates and a far lower preferred income tax rate when it comes to capital
gains.

If we were to raise the marginal rate to 45 percent for people earning more
than a million dollars and if we tax capital gains essentially the same we do
earnings from hard work and sweat and toil, you could generate $800 billion
over the next ten years and that would do so much good for affordable college,
debt-free college, cutting youth unemployment in half, investing in our cities
again.

So the things I have done in office are the things that actually invest in
growing our economy and making wages go up. That's the issue that we need to
tackle as Americans, and we can do it and we know how.


 There is no issue in American public policy that I have worked on more day in and day out than this painful issue of policing, of law enforcement, criminal justice and race in America.

When I ran in 1999, David, for mayor of Baltimore, our city by that year had
become the most addicted, violent, and abandoned in America. But we came
together. I brought people together over some very deep racial divides. And we
were able to put our city on the path for the biggest reduction in crime of
any major city in America over the next ten years.

As governor, we continued to work together. We reduced violent crime to
30-year lows. But get this. We also reduced incarceration rates to 20-year
lows. So it is possible actually, to find the things that actually work, that
we did, increasing drug treatment, using big data to better protect the lives
of young people, cut juvenile crime in half, and it's also possible to improve
how we police our police.

But there wasn't a single day as mayor of Baltimore that I wasn't asked
whether I was delivering on the promise I made to police the police. We
reported excessive force, discourtesy, use of lethal force. In fact, drove
down to three of the four lowest years on record police use of lethal force.

As a nation, we have to embrace this moment and make our departments more
open, more transparent, and more accountable. Just as we require every major
department, every county to report its major crimes, we should require police
departments to report their discourtesy, brutality, excessive force.

There's so much work that can be done, so much we've learned to do better. We
need to do it now as a nation. This is our time and our opportunity to do
that.


 And you know, I actually know a great deal about this issue. And I have a dear friend, played music with him for years, remember when his -- when he came home with his baby girl, and now she's no longer with us, because of addiction and overdose.

The last time in New Hampshire, I had to take a break shortly after landing
and call home and comfort a friend whose mother had died of an overdose.


 Drugs have taken far too many of our citizens. It's a huge public health challenge. In our own city, I mentioned before, we had become the most addicted city in America.

But together, every single year, I expanded drug treatment funding within our
city and then I expanded it in our state, and we were saving lives every
single year doing the things that work, intervening earlier, understanding the
continuum of care that's required until we got hit like every other state in
the state -- in the United States, especially in New Hampshire and in the
northeast with this opioid addiction, the over-prescribing.

I agree, we need better -- we need to rein in the over- prescribing, but I
have put forward on my -- in my plan a $12 billion federal investment. We have
to invest in the local partnerships, and the best place to intervene, the best
indicator of when a person is actually on the verge of killing themselves
because of an addiction, is at the hospital. That very first time they show up
with a near miss, we should be intervening there. That's what I said to my own
public health people. What would we do if this were Ebola? How would we act?

So many more Americans have been killed by the combination of heroin and these
highly addictive pain pills, and yet, we refuse to act. There are thing that
can be done. Go on to my website. My plan is there. It's one of 15 strategic
goals I've set out to make our country a better place by cutting these sort of
deaths in half in the next five years.


 Martha -- I would just repeat that --


 And Martha... 


 ... and in this case, we probably let our lust for regime toppling get ahead of the practical considerations for stability in that region. And I believe that one of the big failings in that region is a lack of human intelligence. We have not made the investments that we need to make to understand and to have relationships with future leaders that are coming up.

That's what Chris Stevens was trying to do. But without the tools, without the
support that was needed to that. And now what we have is a whole stretch now,
of the coast of Libya, 100 miles, 150 miles, that has now become potentially
the next safe haven for ISIL. They go back and forth between Syria and this
region. We have to stop contributing to the creation of vacuums that allow
safe havens to develop.


 Well, that would be totally up to her. I mean, Katie has never been a person who let her husband's professional choices get in the way of following her dreams.

And I think she got that from her mother, actually. 

The -- and I readily admit that she is a far more accomplished lawyer than I
was ever able to become, before I took my detour. She is a district court
judge in Maryland. She puts in a full day there. We've raised four terrific
kids. And yet, when she was first lady of the state, not only would she go to
work every day and sit there through a lot of sad and gut-wrenching cases, but
then she'd put in additional time being an advocate against domestic violence.

Maryland made great strides on that because of her advocacy, and her
understanding of how the court process works. She was an advocate against
bullying and implementing anti-bullying things. So Katie O'Malley will do
whatever Katie O'Malley wants to do, regardless of her husband's success in
getting elected president. 


 Thank you.


 Martha, thank you. I want to thank all of the people who have tuned in tonight. I want to thank the great people of New Hampshire, where despite all of the cynicism about big money and big banks taking over our politics, here in New Hampshire, the individual matters.

You know, my wife Katie and I have four terrific kids, and like you, there's
probably nothing we wouldn't do to give them a future that's safer, that's
healthier, where they have more opportunity than our parents and grandparents
gave to us. Tonight, what you listened to was a healthy exchange of ideas
about how we'd do that, that which we have always proven, the capacity to do
better than any nation in the world, to take actions that include more of our
people more fully in the economic, social and political life of our country.

When you listened to the Republican debate the other night, you heard a lot of
anger and you had a lot of fear. Well, they can have their anger and they can
have their fear, but anger and fear never built America. We build our country
by adopting wage and labor policies, including comprehensive immigration
reform with a pathway of citizenship for all. We do it by investing in our
country, by investing in infrastructure, by investing in the skills and the
talents of our people with debt-free college, and we can do it again.

And we also create a better future for our kids when we square our shoulders
to the great challenges of our times, whether it's terror trying to undermine
our values or Republican presidential candidates trying to get us to surrender
our freedoms and our values in the face of this threat.

The other big challenge we have is climate change. The greatest business
opportunity to come to the United States of America in 100 years. We need to
embrace this. I have put forward a plan that does this, that moves us to 100
percent clean electric grid by 2050. Join this campaign for the future. New
leadership is what our country needs to move us out of these divided and
polarized times. Thank you.


 Thank you. My name is Martin O'Malley, I was born the year Dr. King delivered his "I Have A Dream" speech.

And I want to thank the people of South Carolina, not only for hosting our
debate here tonight, but also for what you taught all of us in the aftermath
of the tragic shooting at Mother Emanuel Church.

You taught us, in fact, in keeping with Dr. King's teaching, that love would
have the final word when you took down the Confederate flag from your state
house; let go of the past and move forward.

Eight years ago, you brought forward a new leader in Barack Obama to save our
country from the second Great Depression. And that's what he's done. Our
country's doing better, we're creating jobs again.

But in order to make good on the promise of equal opportunity and equal
justice under the law, and we have urgent work to do, and the voices of anger
and fear and division that we've heard coming off of the Republican
presidential podiums are pretty loud.

We need new leadership. We need to come together as a people and build on the
good things that President Obama has done.

That's why I'm running for president. I need your help, I ask for your vote,
and I look forward to moving our country forward once again.

Thank you.


 Thank you. First of all, I would lay out an agenda to make wages go up again for all Americans, rather than down. Equal pay for equal work, making it easier rather than harder for people to join labor unions and bargain collectively for better wages; getting 11 million of our neighbors out of the underground shadow economy by passing comprehensive immigration reform, raising the minimum wage to $15 an hour, however we can, wherever we can.

Secondly, I believe the greatest business opportunity to come to the United
States of America in 100 years is climate change. And I put forward a plan to
move us to a 100 percent clean electric energy grid by 2050 and create 5
million jobs along the way. 


 Finally — I'm sorry, that was second, Lester.

And third and finally, we need a new agenda for America's cities. We have not
had a new agenda for America's cities since Jimmy Carter. We need a new agenda
for America cities that will invest in the talents and skills in our people,
that will invest in CBVG transportation, infrastructure and transit options,
and make our cities the leading edge in this move to a redesigned built clean
green energy future that will employ our people.


 This is what I would say Lester, look see, I've listened to Secretary Clinton and Senator Sanders go back and forth on which of them has the most inconsistent record on gun safety legislation and I would have to agree with both of them. They've both been inconsistent when it comes to this issue.

I'm the one candidate on this stage that actually brought people together to
pass comprehensive gun safety legislation. This is very personal to me being
from Baltimore. I will never forget one occasion visiting a little boy in
Johns' Hopkins Hospital, he was getting a birthday haircut, the age of three
when drug dealers turned that barbershop into a shooting gallery and that
boy's head was pierced with a bullet. And I remember visiting him, it did not
kill him - I remember visiting him and his mother in Johns Hopkins Hospital.
He was getting a birthday haircut, the age of three when drug dealers turned
that barbershop into a shooting gallery, and that boys head was pierced with a
bullet.

And, I remember visiting him, it did not kill him. I remember visiting him and
his mother in Johns Hopkins Hospital. In his diapers with tubes running in and
out of his head, same age as my little boy.

So, after the slaughter of the kids in Connecticut last year, we brought
people together. We did pass in our state comprehensive gun safety
legislation. It did have a ban on combat assault weapons, universal background
checks, and you know what? We did not interrupt a single person's hunting
season.

I've never met a self respecting deer hunter that needed an AR-15 to down a
deer. And, so......we're able to actually do these things.


 Lester, I 


 Yes, let's talk about this. When I ran for mayor in 1999, Lester, it was not because our city was doing well. It was because we were burying over 300 young, poor black men every single year.

And that's why I ran, because, yes, black lives matter. And we did a number of
things. We weren't able to make our city immune from setbacks as the Freddie
Gray unrest and tragic death showed.

But we were able to save a lot of lives doing things that actually worked to
improve police and community relations. The truth of the matter is, we created
a civilian review board. And many of these things are in the new agenda for
criminal justice reform that I've put forward.

We created a civilian review board, gave them their own detectives. We
required the reporting of discourtesy, use of excessive force, lethal force. I
repealed the possession of marijuana as a crime in our state.

I drove our incarceration rate down to 20-year lows, and drove violent crime
down to 30-year lows, and became the first governor south of the Mason-Dixon
line to repeal the death penalty.

I feel a responsibility every day to find things that work... 


 ... and to do more of them to reform our criminal justice system.


 Lester, just ten seconds.


 Just 10 seconds. All of the things...


 I have to talk about something that's actually working in our state.


 Andrea — Andrea — Andrea.

 


 Instead of — Andrea, I think, instead of attacking one another on health care, we should be talking about the things that are actually working.

In our state, we have moved to an all-payer system. With the Affordable Care
Act, we now have moved all of our acute care hospitals, that driver of cost at
the center, away from fee-for- service.

And actually to pay, we pay them based on how well they keep patients out of
the hospital. How well they keep their patients. That's the future. We need to
build on the Affordable Care Act, do the things that work, and reduce costs
and increase access.




 Great question.


 Yes, but senator you never came to campaign for Vincent Sheheen when he was running for governor. In fact, neither of you came to campaign for Vincent Sheheen when he was running for governor. 

We can talk all we want about wanting to build a stronger Democratic party,
but Lester, the question you answered, it's no laughing matter.

The most recurring question I get when I stand on the chair all across Iowa
and talk with my neighbors is, how are you going to heal the divisions and the
wounds in our country? This is the biggest challenge we face as a people.

All my life, I brought people together over deep divides and very old wounds,
and that's what we need now in a new leader. We cannot keep talking past each
other, declaring all Republicans are our enemies or the war is all about being
against millionaires or billionaires, or it's all against American Muslims,
all against immigrants.

Look, as Frederick Douglas said, we are one, our cause is one, and we must
help each other if we are going to succeed.


 I agree with that.


 I agree.


 That's not true.


 It's just not true.


 Oh, come on.


 Yes, thank you. Yes, Lester, what Secretary Clinton just said is actually not true. What — I have put forward a plan that would actually put cops back on the beat of Wall Street. I have put forward a plan that was heralded as very comprehensive and realistic.

Look, if a bank robber robs a bank and all you do is slap him on the wrist,
he's just going to keep robbing banks again. The same thing is true with
people in suits.

Secretary Clinton, I have a tremendous amount of respect for you, but for you
to say there's no daylight on this between the three of us is also not true. I
support reinstituting a modern version of Glass- Steagall that would include
going after the shadow banks, requiring capital requirements that would force
them to no longer put us on the hook for these sorts of things.

In prior debates I've heard you even bring up — I mean, now you bring up
President Obama here in South Carolina in defense of the fact of your cozy
relationship with Wall Street.

In an earlier debate, I heard you bring up even the 9/11 victims to defend it.
The truth of the matter is, Secretary Clinton, you do not go as far as reining
in Wall Street as I would.

And the fact of the matter is, the people of America deserve to have a
president that's on their side, protecting the main street economy from
excesses on Wall Street. And we're just as vulnerable today.


 And we have never used it.


 Yes, but I haven't gotten a penny this year... 


 ... so somebody please, go on to martinomalley.com.... Go on to martinomalley.com, send me your checks. They're not giving me — zero.


 Say it.


 


 Andrea...


 ... The only person on this stage who has...


 Senator, I'm the only person on this stage that's actually balanced a budget every year for 15 years.


 OK. So, that was eight years. Yes. And Senator, but I actually did it during a budget down time — I mean, during a recession.

And Andrea, the — I had to make more cuts than any governor in the history of
Maryland, but we invested more in infrastructure, more in transportation. We
made our public schools more in America more than five years in a row, and
went four years in a row without a penny's increase to college tuition.

The things that we need to do in our country, like debt-free college in the
next five years, like making universal — like making national service a
universal option in order to cut youth unemployment in half in the next three
years, all these things can be done if we eliminate one entitlement we can no
longer afford as a nation.

And that is the wealthy among us, those making more than a million dollars,
feel that they are entitled to paying a much lower marginal tax rate than was
usual for the better part of these 80 years.

And if we tax earnings from investments on money — namely capital gains — at
the same rate as we tax sweat and hard work and toil, we can make the
investments we need to make to make our country better.


 Thank you.

Lester, on this stage tonight, this Democratic stage, where we actually
believe in science. 

I would like to challenge and invite my colleagues here on this stage to join
me in putting forward a plan to move us to a 100 percent clean, electric
energy grid by 2050. It can be done. 

With solar, with wind, with new technologies, with green buildings, this can
happen, but in all — President Obama made us more energy independent, but in
all of the above strategy didn't land us on the moon, we need American
ingenuity and we need to reach by 2050 for the sake of our kids.


 Andrea...


 Thank you. 

Andrea, governors have led us to victory in two world wars by doing what
America does best, and that is by joining forces with others by acting in
coalition. And I believe that President Obama is doing the right thing in this
case.

We need to learn the lessons from the past. We do need to provide the special
— special ops advisers, we need — do need to provide the technical support,
but over the long-term, we need to develop new alliances. We need a much more
proactive national security strategy that reduces these threats before they
rise to a level where it feels like we need to pull for a division of marines.

And I also want to add one other thing here. I appreciate the fact that in our
debate, we don't use the term you hear Republicans throwing around trying to
look all vibrato and macho sending other kids — kids into combat, they keep
using the term boots on the ground. A woman in Burlington, Iowa said to me,
"Governor, when you're with your colleagues, please don't refer to my son who
has served two tours of duty in Iraq as a pair of boots on the ground." Now,
we need to be mindful of learning the lessons of the past. 


 But in all of that senator and secretary, I think we're leaving out something very important here. And that is that we still don't have the human intelligence: overt, in terms of diplomatic intelligence or covert, to understand even what the heck happens as the secondary and tertiary effects of some of these things.

We are walking through this region, Andrea, without the human intelligence
that we need. And we need to make a renewed investment as a country in
bringing up a new generation of foreign service officers, and bringing up a
new generation of business people and actually understanding and having
relationships in these places.

So we have a better sense of what the heck happens after a dictator topples
and can take action to prevent another safe haven and another iteration of
terror.


 Thank you.

I believe whether it's a back door or a front door that the American principle
of law should still hold that our federal government should have to get a
warrant, whether they want to come through the back door or your front door.


And I also agree, Lester, with Benjamin Franklin, who said, no people should
ever give up their privacy or their freedoms in a promise for security.

So we're a collaborative people. We need collaborative leadership here with
Silicon Valley and other bright people in my own state of Maryland and around
the NSA that can actually figure this out.

But there are certain immutable principles that will not become antique things
in our country so long as we defend our country and its values and its
freedoms. And one of those things is our right to be secure in our homes, and
our right to expect that our federal government should have to get a warrant.

I also want to the say that while we've made some progress on the Patriot Act,
I do believe that we need an adversarial court system there. We need a public
advocate. We need to develop jurisprudence so that we can develop a body of
law that protects the privacy of Americans in the information and digital age.


 Yes, Lester, year in and year out I was the leader of the U.S. ...


 Can I get 30 seconds, too? 


 And Andrea — Andrea — Andrea...


 Andrea, when can I get my 30 seconds?


 Andrea, I need to talk about homeland security and preparedness.

Ever since the attacks of September 11th — 30 seconds. 

Ever since the attacks of September 11th, my colleagues, Democratic and
Republican mayors, Democratic and Republican governors, made me their leader
on homeland security and preparedness.

Here in the homeland, unlike combating ISIL abroad, we're almost like it's —
your body's immune system. It's able to protect your body against bad bugs,
not necessarily because it outnumbers them, but it's better connected — the
fusion centers, the biosurveillance systems, better prepared first responders.

But there's another front in this battle, and it is this. That's the political
front, and if Donald Trump wants to start a registry in our country of people
by faith, he can start with me, and I will sign up as one who is totally
opposed to his fascist appeals that wants to vilify American Muslims. That can
do more damage to our democracy than any...


 Yes, but we're going to have to get 20 minutes to do it, so. 


 I believe there are many issues. I have 60 seconds for this?


 There are so many issues that we haven't been able to discuss here. We have not fully discussed immigration reform, and the deplorable number of immigrant detention camps that our nation's now maintaining. We haven't discussed the shameful treatment that the people of Puerto Rico, our fellow Americans, are getting treated with by these hedge funds that are working them over. 

We haven't discussed the fact that in our hemisphere we have the danger of
nation-state failures because of drug traffickers; and Honduras, and Guatemala
and El Salvador.

I guess the bottom line is this, look we are a great people the way we act at
home and abroad based on the beliefs that unite us. Our belief in the dignity
of every person, our belief in our own common good. There is now challenge
that is too great for us to overcome provided we bring forward in these
divided times, new leadership that can heal our divides here at home and bring
our principles into alignment abroad.

We're on the threshold of a new era of American progress and I believe we have
only need to join forces together and cross that threshold into a new era of
American prosperity.


 Thanks a lot.


 Chris, how are you? 


 Good to see you, too, man. 


 I think. 

Hey. 


 Thanks a lot. 


 Thank you.  


 I'm excited. It's Iowa Caucus time. And Chris, I've seen this before. Once Iowans get into that decision-making pocket, none of the pollsters back East can tell you how it's going to turn out.  

And - and...  ...I wish you could be out there with me. I have
been campaigning the Iowa Caucus way. I've been to over 120 events and getting
up on the chair, doing town halls like this.

And we're seeing larger and larger crowds. And the - the beauty of the people
of Iowa is they're not intimidated by polls, they're not intimidated by
pundits and they have this birthright, they feel, to upset the apple cart.

And with only three of us in this Democratic primary, there's only one of us
who can still upset the apple cart. Come on, Iowa, right? 


 Yes, well, this - the - this is what I have to say. Look, I'm in this, Chris, to win this. I'm running for president of the United States. And the reason I'm running is this. 

Our country is facing big challenges. And we have deep divisions in our
country. And we need a candidate who can actually pull us together, who can
heal these divisions, who can get things done. That's what I've done all my
life. I'm not a divider. If I were, I would not have been able to accomplish
the things we accomplished in a very troubled city or in our state through a
recession.

And that's what I believe the people of Iowa are looking for, a president who
will move us forward, who will build on the good things that President Obama
has done and actually take that job creation legacy and turn it into rising
wages again for every American family.

That's what we need. And we need new leadership to do that and break through
the gridlock of Washington.


 Yes. 


 Well, look, I'm honored to be able to offer my candidacy in the company of Secretary Clinton and Senator Sanders. If you look at our Democratic primary and the debates we've had, we're certainly doing a much better job of speaking to the goodness within our country rather than to fear and anger and loathing like we've heard from Republicans.  


 Yes.  


 . 


 Is this Q&amp;A time? 

Am I allowed to stand?


 I'm not capable of doing Q&amp;A in Iowa... 


 \- from a seat. 


 OK. 


 Hi. 


 Yes, well...  ...Well, look, let's talk about this. In 1999, our city of Baltimore had become the most violent, the most addicted and the most abandoned city in America. And when very few other people would step up who could bring us together and turn it around, I did. 

And that year, and for about the 12 years leading up to that point, we were
burying over 300 young, poor, black men every single year. And, yes, black
lives matter. And I told the people of my city look, we did not have to accept
the reality of 24/7 drug dealer occupation over our poor neighborhood. When
you call from a poor neighborhood for a police service, they should respond
the same way that they do in wealthier neighborhoods, black and white.

There are a lot of things we got right. There were a lot of lives that we
saved. I promise to improve how we police the police. We actually did start
closing down open air drug markets.

And in the course of my executive service both as mayor and as a governor, I
never stop searching for the things that work so we can do more of them to
save and redeem lives, and the things that don't work so that we can stop
doing them. So we greatly increased drug treatment. We saved hundreds and
hundreds of lives from overdose deaths.

We started tracking discourtesy, excessive force. I drove down use of fatal
police-involved - fatal police-involved shootings to three of their four
lowest years in Baltimore history.

And as governor, I restored voting rights to 52,000 people. I repealed as a
crime and decriminalized the possession of marijuana. I banned the box on
people who are applying for state employment. And... 

And not the first time, not the second time, but the third time, by bringing
people together, including a few Republican votes, I made my state the first
state south of the Mason Dixon Line to repeal the death penalty in America.


So...


 Look, it's hard to appreciate at the time. But one true story, and quickly, Chris... 


 There is a family of seven people, a mom, dad and five kids who in East Baltimore were firebombed in their sleep and killed by a drug dealer. And the reason? Because they were picking up the phone and calling 911 and asking for relief for their kids from this sort of 24/7 drug dealer occupation. 

Look, I think all of us have a responsibility. I know I feel a responsibility
to constantly look for the things that work and the things that don't work. By
the end of my time as governor we had driven down violent crime to a 30-year
low. And we had also driven down our incarceration rate to a 20-year low. You
can do both of them at the same time by doing the things that work.



 Tell me your name again. 


 Look, I think we need to build upon the good things that President Obama has done with the Affordable Care Act. But no program ever came into existence in a perfect condition. So we have to improve it. And one of the ways I think we need to improve it is by covering those high value sort of early out-of-pocket expenses that people are experiencing. 

What I hear from a lot of folks all over Iowa is that maybe while their
premiums have leveled off, they're paying more out-of-pocket, more - and their
deductibles are higher. So we need to - we need to push the insurance
companies to actually offer products that pay for those early, those first
out-of-pocket expenses.

But let me take you up to a slightly larger and higher level, and it is this.
Look, we need to - we need to change what it is that we actually pay for, to
put wellness at the center.

In my own state we moved all 46 of our acute care hospitals out of fee-for-
service and started paying them global payment for all of their Medicare and
Medicaid patients. Why? Because the biggest driver of your high health
insurance costs, and throughout our country, is the hospital costs at the
center.

And we told our hospitals that if you reduce avoidable hospital readmissions,
you can share in those savings. And the New England Journal of Medicine did an
article about four weeks ago and said I'll be damned, it actually works.


We can dial up wellness. We can reduce the expense here. And that's the
future, I believe. And every state has a role to play in moving that way
because clearly we're still paying too much for health insurance.

Our system's called an all-payer system. We have a rate-setting commission.
And we're able to replace the institutional profitability. I mean, the
hospitals aren't going bankrupt by any means, but we're able to put wellness
at the center.

And that's what we need to do as a country to bring down the high cost of
health care. 


 Well, it's still early, there are six days.  


 Thank you. Great question. 

I have put forward a plan for debt-free college within the next five years.
And as the one candidate among the three of us with 15 years of executive
experience, we went four years in a row in my state without a penny's increase
to college tuition. So you can check out my plan for that on my Web site,
martinomalley.com.

But you know what I believe is the biggest issue that I think you should be
concerned about as a young person who has more time on this planet than I do?
And that is climate change. 

Climate change is the greatest business opportunity to come to the United
States in 100 years. And I am the first candidate in either party to put
forward a plan to move us to a 100 percent clean electric energy grid by 2050,
and create 5 million jobs along the way.

And this is another one of those instances, Chris, where Iowa is pointing the
way forward. Look at what you have already done in your state. Thirty to 35
percent of your energy now comes from clean Iowa wind, which wasn't there 15
years ago.

And you employ 5,000 people in the new industry, and the great thing about
those big component parts you see rumbling down the highway on I-80 is they're
too darn big for it to make a whole lot of sense to import them from other
countries.

So you have to build them here. 

And it's a big - and it's a big differentiator among the three of us. I mean,
we're all - we're all decent people, we all want to do the right thing for our
planet, but there is a generational perspective here. And we're not going to
get to 100 percent clean electric grid with an "all of the above" strategy,
any more than we got to the moon with an "all of the above" strategy.

It was an engineering challenge. And we are up top this as Americans. But
incrementalism, half steps, splitting the loaf, that's not going to get us.
And that's not what your generation wants. You want the straight truth and you
want us to face our challenges fearlessly and make this new reality ours.


 Thank you. 

I have put forward in your state 15 strategic goals to move our country
forward again, to rebuild the truth of the American dream to get wages to go
up, to make college more affordable and debt-free within the next five years,
cut drug overdoses in half in the next 10 years, gun deaths in half in the
next 10 years.

But one of the goals is to cut youth unemployment in half in the next three
years. And I propose to do that by making national service a universal option
for every kid in America, to serve their country in environmental restoration,
or in public health, or in other avenues in addition to the military.

And I believe that that will not only allow our kids to go to college in a
more affordable way, giving them an increased Pell grant benefit, but I also
know that it will do a great deal to tap that goodness within the next
generation and bring it forward, bring their ethic forward.

Let me talk a little bit about veterans because another one of our - my
strategic goals is full employment for the veterans of ours who come home from
Iraq and Afghanistan.

We do a very poor job of transitioning our veterans back to civilian life. And
I have found, as a governor attacking this problem, that the key is
employment. Talkingalking to our veterans about employment.

There is absolutely no hand-off between the Defense Department and Veterans
Affairs, let alone our state departments of Veterans Affairs.

And, in fact, on the DD-214, the discharge form that veterans fill out,
there's not even a box on there for an email address. And a lot of our
veterans become ghost people. We might catch up with them eventually at the
hospital. We might catch up with them at a county jail.

We're a better nation than this and we need to have a transition program so
that none of our veterans slip through the cracks and we need to make the
first goal so that we can then get to the Post-Traumatic Stress issues, mental
health and other things.

The first goal needs to be for employment, because every person needs to be
needed. And we need our veterans back here every bit as much as we needed them
abroad. 


 Hi. 


 Sure. Yes. The - let me talk a little bit about our economy. 

Prior to President Obama's good work - and he's done great work. He saved us
from a second Great Depression, from the recklessness and the greed on Wall
Street. Our nation's creating jobs again and we're the only species on the
planet without full employment, so jobs are important, right?

Without jobs, nothing works very well.

But here's another thing that doesn't work very well in America, unless it's
going in the right direction, and that is wages.

For the first time this side of World War II, 70 percent of us are earning the
same or less than we did 12 years ago. So as I look at this, I believe that we
need to first and foremost remember that our economy is not money. It is
people. It is all of our people.

And we need to restore common sense wage and labor policies that make wages
rise again. Things we used to do, Democrats and Republicans together all the
time, like keeping the minimum wage above the poverty line, paying overtime
pay for overtime work.

How about this, the long deferred promise of equal pay for equal work for men
and women? 

Making it easier for people to join labor unions instead of harder. And
then...  ...And here's another one to make wages go up instead of
being a drag on wages, let's get 11 million of our neighbors out of the
underground shadow economy by passing comprehensive immigration reform...
 ...with a pathway to citizenship for all.


 Chris, and two other brief ones on this. 

I'm the first candidate in either party to put forward a new agenda for
America's cities. America's cities are where we have some of the worst
problems of structural unemployment and where we can do the most good with
investments in mobility, mass transit, a new era of workforce housing, making
our cities the leading edge to this clean green environment.

And then the third piece I come back to again is squaring our shoulders to
climate change and training people to actually be part of the retrofitting and
the distributed energy future that is America's.


 You know, the - look, my story is not the story of the - of a Democratic conversion. My story is the story of a Democratic upbringing. And my parents taught me that the stronger we make our country, the more our country can give back to ourselves and to our children. 

And so I believe in fair market American capitalism. And I also, as part of
those 15 strategic goals, believe, as Woodrow Wilson believed, that freedom -
economic freedom also means freedom from monopoly.

I would agree...  ...I would actually agree with Senator Sanders
in this sense, Chris. We have reached the point where there's been such a
concentration of corporate wealth and power in the hands of so few that it's
taking opportunity out of the homes of the many. And whenever that happens,
there's only two paths forward. And only one of them is good. And that is a
sensible rebalancing based on the common good we share.

We need to push back on these concentrations of corporate power, Wall Street,
big banks, but other places, as well.

You know, here in Iowa, a farmer told me that 12 years ago they used to have
about a dozen packing houses. Now, they only have four or five. Hog farmers
are more productive than ever, but they're getting a lower price than ever.

Our economy is an ecosystem, you know? And the center of that ecosystem is a
stronger middle class. In other words, the stronger we make our middle class,
the more our economy grows. And, that's what we've lose track of in these 30
years of trickle down economics. The more our workers earn, the more they
spend, the more our economy grows.

I will say this though, Chris, I think that I do believe that the fundamentals
of American capitalism are still strong. But we need to shake ourselves out of
this trickle down nonsense. This is concentrate wealth, remove regulation, and
keep wages low. Low wages for America is not an America that's working. We nee
wage policies...  ...that make wages go up again.


 I believe that the genius of this American experiment of ours is that in every generation we take actions to include more people more fully in the economic, the social, and the political life our country. That's the broader arc of American history. We've yet to arrive at a perfect union, but every generation we have the opportunity to make it a more perfect union. 

In my own state we were one of the very first to pass at the ballot marriage
equality. I also passed the Transgender Anti-Discrimination bill in the state
of Maryland as well. 

And, it's interesting, you know? The common ground we found to get these
things done was this. It's really about our kids. It's about all our kids.
And, there was some people in Maryland who said we might not be able to pass
marriage equality, and we made the argument all about the truth, that there is
dignity in every child's home, and every child's home needs to be protected
equally under the law.

One of the most powerful beliefs we share is our belief in the dignity of
every person. That's what's motivated me, and the common good that we share.
And, I will do everything in my power to move us forward as a nation, and make
us more inclusive in every possible way I can across the board because that's
what makes us stronger as a country. 

Thank you.


 ... Yeah, not good for family farms, is it? 


 Right? 


 Thank you.  

I think this is a big part of the future for rural America, sustainable
economies. The ability to consume and to grow, and to do that within the
footprint of this place that we call home. So, I would like to work with
congress, and I plan to work with congress, to do more in the Farm Bill to
reduce the barriers of entry to new farmers as they start up. Huge capital
costs that go into buying the land and buying the equipment. But it's also
what's best for keeping our rural economies, and it's best for America. So
I've seen in my own state a whole movement to the "buy local" movement and the
sort of farming that you describe. We need to do more as a nation to encourage
young farmers to go into farming to reduce those barriers and those capital
costs, even at the same time that we push back against the concentration
monopoly power in the agricultural sector. And that's what I intend to do.



 Thank you.  


 This sounds like a process question. Look, here's my suggestion to them. 

What I - I have put together a terrific organization, or we have put together
a terrific organization all across this state, Chris. And one of the reasons
why the polls back east can never figure out how the caucuses work is because
it's a very organic thing.

And so my message to the O'Malley supporters across this state is this. Hold
strong at your caucus. 

Hold strong at your caucus because America's looking for a new leader.
America's scanning the horizon. We cannot be this fed up with our gridlocked,
dysfunctional national politics and think that a resort to old ideologies or
old names is going to move us forward. So I tell my people hold strong.

I know this is a tough fight. But I've always been drawn to a tough fight. I
believe the toughness of the fight is the way the hidden god has of telling us
we're actually fighting for something worth saving.

Our country's worth saving. The American dream is worth saving. This planet is
worth saving. America needs new leadership. And I need the O'Malley supporters
out there on caucus night to hold strong and move forward like Iowa does.



 Thank you. This is what I would say. I would say that time and time again in the history of the state of Iowa, Iowa has found a way to sort through the noise and to sort through the national polls and to lift up a new leader for our country at times when that was critical and essential. 

That's what you did eight years ago when you lifted up Barack Obama to lead
our country forward. And we need to build upon his good work by continuing to
move forward.

And that I am the only - I am the only one of the three of us who has a track
record not of being a divider, but of bringing people together to get
meaningful things done: raising the living wage, making college more
affordable, creating jobs, healing wounds and divisions. That's what our
country needs right now.

We are a great people. We are a generous and we are a compassionate people.
And we are far better than the sort of fascist rhetoric that you hear spewed
out by Donald Trump. The enduring symbol of our country is not the barbed wire
fence. It is the Statue of Liberty. And we... 

And so I'm not here to praise you, Iowa, I'm here to challenge you. Lift up a
new leader, because you can change the course of this presidential race. You
can shift this dynamic on caucus night. I know you can, I've seen you do it
before.

There is nothing so divided about our national politics that it cannot be
healed with the renewed faith in one another and new leadership. That's what I
have to offer. My candidacy is in your hands. Do with it as you will.

But I think it's important in order to move our country forward that once
again Iowa lift up a new leader so we that can make America the compassionate,
generous, and inclusive place that we need it to be. Thanks. 


 Thank you. 


