 When America does not lead, the world is a dangerous and a tragic place. This is a bad deal. Obama broke every rule of negotiation. 

Yes, our allies are not perfect, but Iran is at the heart of most of the evil
that is going on in the Middle East through their proxy.




 Good evening. My story, from secretary to CEO, is only possible in this nation, and proves that everyone of us has potential. My husband, Frank, of 30 years, started out driving a tow truck for a family owned auto body shop. We have come to a pivotal point in our nation's history where this nation's possibilities and potential are being crushed by a government grown so big, so powerful, so inept, so corrupt, and a political class that refuses to do anything about it. 

I am prepared to lead the resurgence of this great nation. 


 You know, I think Mr. Trump is a wonderful entertainer. He's been terrific at that business. 

I also think that one of the benefits of a presidential campaign is the
character and capability, judgment and temperament of every single one of us
is revealed over time and under pressure. All of us will be revealed over time
and under pressure. I look forward to a long race.


 That's not for me to answer; it is for the voters of this country to answer, and I have a lot of faith in the common sense and good judgment of the voters of the United States of America. 


 Jake, I'll tell you — I'll tell you why people are supporting outsiders. It's because you know what happens if someone's been in the system their whole life, they don't know how broken the system is. A fish swims in water, it doesn't know it's water. It's not that politicians are bad people, it's that they've been in that system forever. 

The truth is 75 percent of the American people think the government is
corrupt; 82 percent of the American people think these problems that have
festered for 50 years in some cases, 25 years in other cases. The border's
been insecure for 25 years; 307,000 veterans have died waiting for health
care. These things have gone on for so long because no one will challenge the
status quo.

You know what a leader does? They challenge the status quo, they solve
problems that have festered for a long time and they produce results. That is
what my whole life has been about. People know this is about far more than
replacing a D with an R —


 — this is about changing the system. 


 Having... 


 Having met Vladimir Putin, if I may... 


 Having met Vladimir Putin, I wouldn't talk to him at all. We've talked way too much to him. 

What I would do, immediately, is begin rebuilding the Sixth Fleet, I would
begin rebuilding the missile defense program in Poland, I would conduct
regular, aggressive military exercises in the Baltic states. I'd probably send
a few thousand more troops into Germany. Vladimir Putin would get the message.
By the way, the reason it is so critically important that every one of us know
General Suleimani's name is because Russia is in Syria right now, because the
head of the Quds force traveled to Russia and talked Vladimir Putin into
aligning themselves with Iran and Syria to prop up Bashar al- Assad.

Russia is a bad actor, but Vladimir Putin is someone we should not talk to,
because the only way he will stop is to sense strength and resolve on the
other side, and we have all of that within our control.

We could rebuild the Sixth Fleet. I will. We haven't. We could rebuild the
missile defense program. We haven't. I will. We could also, to Senator Rubio's
point, give the Egyptians what they've asked for, which is intelligence.

We could give the Jordanians what they've asked for...


 ...bombs and materiel. We have not supplied it... 


 ...I will. We could arm the Kurds. They've been asking us for three years. All of this is within our control.  


 ...Jake... 


 ...Jake, ...  


 And then it'll be my turn. 


 Jake? 


 Jake? 


 Dana, I'd like to... 


 Dana, I would like to link these two issues, both of which are incredibly important, Iran and Planned Parenthood. 

One has something to do with the defense of the security of this nation. The
other has something to do with the defense of the character of this nation.
You have not heard a plan about Iran from any politician up here, here is my
plan. On day one in the Oval Office, I will make two phone calls, the first to
my good friend to Bibi Netanyahu to reassure him we will stand with the state
of Israel.

The second, to the supreme leader, to tell him that unless and until he opens
every military and every nuclear facility to real anytime, anywhere
inspections by our people, not his, we, the United States of America, will
make it as difficult as possible and move money around the global financial
system.

We can do that, we don't need anyone's cooperation to do it. And every ally
and every adversary we have in this world will know that the United States in
America is back in the leadership business, which is how we must stand with
our allies.

As regards Planned Parenthood, anyone who has watched this videotape, I dare
Hillary Clinton, Barack Obama to watch these tapes. Watch a fully formed fetus
on the table, it's heart beating, it's legs kicking while someone says we have
to keep it alive to harvest its brain.

This is about the character of our nation, and if we will not stand up in and
force President Obama to veto this bill, shame on us. 


 You know, it's interesting to me, Mr. Trump said that he heard Mr. Bush very clearly and what Mr. Bush said. I think women all over this country heard very clearly what Mr. Trump said.  


 Dana, with all being said to Mr. Trump... 


 Immigration did not come up in 2016 because Mr. Trump brought it up. We talked about it in 2012, we talked about it in 2008. We talked about it in 2004. 


 We have been talking about it for 25 years. This is why people are tired of politicians. 


 First let me say, We have just spent a good bit of time discussing, as Republicans, how to solve this problem. I would ask your audience at home to ask a very basic question. Why have Democrats not solved this problem? 

President Obama campaigned in 2007 and 2008 on solving the immigration
problem. He entered Washington with majorities in the House and the Senate. He
could have chosen to do anything to solve this pro — this problem. Instead, he
chose to do nothing.

Why? because the Democrats don't want this issue solved.


 They want it to be an issue that they can use. As to birthright citizenship... 


 ...the truth is, you can't just wave your hands and say "the 14th Amendment is gonna go away." It will take an extremely arduous vote in Congress, followed by two-thirds of the states, and if that doesn't work to amend the Constitution, then it is a long, arduous process in court. 

And meanwhile, what will continue to go on is what has gone on for 25 years.
With all due respect, Mr. Trump, we've been talking about illegal immigration
for 25 years. San Francisco has been a sanctuary city since 1989. There are
300 of them.

And meanwhile, what has happened? Nothing. The border remains insecure. The
legal immigration system remains broken. Look, we know what it takes to secure
a border. We've heard a lot of great ideas here. Money, manpower,
technology...


 ...mostly, apparently, leadership... 


 ...the kind of leadership that understands how to get results. 


 But you — you would stipulate, Mr. Trump, but not everyone agrees with you. 


 OK. 


 I led Hewlett Packard through a very difficult time, the worst technology recession in 25 years. The NASDAQ stock index fell 80 percent. It took 15 years for the stock index to recover. We had very strong competitors who literally went out of business and lost all of their jobs in the process. 

Despite those difficult times, we doubled the size of the company, we
quadrupled its topline growth rate, we quadrupled its cash flow, we tripled
its rate of innovation.

Yes, we had to make tough choices, and in doing so, we saved 80,000 jobs, went
on to grow to 160,000 jobs. And now Hewlett Packard is almost 300,000 jobs. We
went from lagging behind to leading in every product category and every market
segment.

We must lead in this nation again, and some tough calls are going to be
required. But as for the firing, I have been very honest about this from the
day it happened. When you challenge the status quo, you make enemies. I made a
few. Steve Jobs told me that when he called me the day I was fired to say,
hey, been there, done that twice.

It's also true that the man that led my firing, Tom Perkins, just took —


 — out a full-page ad in the New York Times to say he was wrong, I was right. I was a terrific CEO, the board was dysfunctional. And he thinks I will make a magnificent president of the United States.  


 You know, Jeffrey Sonnenfeld is a well-known Clintonite and honestly had it out for me from the moment that I arrived at Hewlett Packard. But honestly, Mr. Trump, I find it quite rich that you would talk about this. 

You know, there are a lot of us Americans who believe that we are going to
have trouble someday paying back the interest on our debt because politicians
have run up mountains of debt using other people's money. That is in fact
precisely the way you ran your casinos. You ran up mountains of debt, as well
as losses, using other people's money, and you were forced to file for
bankruptcy not once —


 — not twice, four times, a record four times. Why should we trust you to manage the finances — 


 — of this nation any differently than you managed the finances — 


 — of your casinos? 


 Well — 


 Well, Mr. Trump — 


 A track record of leadership is not a game. It is the issue in this election. 


 Well, I thought we had been hearing quite a bit about Govenor Christie's record as governor, actually. I think track records are very important. I completely agree that what's at stake here is the future of this nation, and the future of every American. 

But I do think that a track record of leadership is vital because in the end
this election is about leadership. And let's talk about what leadership is.
It's not about braggadocio, it is about challenging the status quo, solving
problems, producing results.

And the highest calling of leadership is to unlock potential in others.


 Problems have festered in Washington for too long. And the potential of this nation is being crushed. 


 You see, Governor Christie, people spend time talking about their track records, and Mr. Trump and I have every right to do the same. And Mrs. Clinton has to defend her track record. 

Her track record of lying about Benghazi, of lying about her e- mails, about
lying about her servers. She does not have a track record of accomplishment.

Like Mrs. Clinton, I, too, have travels hundreds of thousands of miles around
the globe. But unlike Mrs. Clinton, I know flying is an activity, not an
accomplishment. Mrs. Clinton — if you want to stump a Democrat, ask them to
name a accomplishment of Mrs. Clinton's.


 We just spent — we just spent the last 10 minutes... 


 ...Jake, since everyone has gotten to weigh in on this military issue, I'd like to be able to do the same. 

We have spent probably 12 minutes talking about the past. Let's talk about the
future. We need the strongest military on the face of the planet, and everyone
has to know it. And, specifically, what that means is we need about 50 Army
brigades, we need about 36 Marine battalions, we need somewhere between 300,
and 350 naval ships, we need to upgrade every leg of the nuclear triad...


 ...we need to reform the Department of Defense, we need as well... 


 ...to invest in our military technology, and we need to care for our veterans so 307,000... 


 ...aren't dying waiting for health care.  


 Jake, may I just say... 


 Jake — Jake... 


 I very much hope I am the only person on this stage who can say this, but I know there are millions of Americans out there who will say the same thing. 

My husband Frank and I buried a child to drug addiction. So, we must invest
more in the treatment of drugs.


 I agree with Senator Paul. I agree with states' rights. But we are misleading young people when we tell them that marijuana is just like having a beer. It's not. And the marijuana that kids are smoking today is not the same as the marijuana that Jeb Bush smoked 40 years ago.  

We do — sorry, Barbara. We do need — we do need criminal justice reform. We
have the highest incarceration rates in the world. Two-thirds of the people in
our prisons are there for non-violent offenses, mostly drug related. It's
clearly not working.

But we need to tell young people the truth. Drug addiction is an epidemic, and
it is taking too many of our young people. I know this sadly from personal
experience.


 I wouldn't change the $10 bill, or the $20 bill. I think, honestly, it's a gesture. I don't think it helps to change our history. What I would think is that we ought to recognize that women are not a special interest group. Women are the majority of this nation. We are half the potential of this nation, and this nation will be better off when every woman has the opportunity to live the life she chooses.  


 Secretariat. 


 I think what this nation can be and must be is symbolized by Lady Liberty and Lady Justice. Lady Liberty stands tall and strong. She is clear-eyed and resolute. She doesn't shield her eyes from the realities of the world, but she faces outward into the world nevertheless, as we always must. 

And she holds her torch high, because she knows she is a beacon of hope in a
very troubled world.

And Lady Justice, Lady Justice holds a sword by her side, because she is a
fighter, a warrior for the values and the principles that have made this
nation great. She holds a scale in her other hand. And with that scale she
says all of us are equal in the eyes of God. And so all of us must be equal in
the eyes of the law and the government, powerful and powerless alike.

And she wears a blindfold. And with that blindfold she is saying to us that it
must be true, it can be true that in this country, in this century, it doesn't
matter who you are, it doesn't matter what you look like, it doesn't matter
how you start, it doesn't matter your circumstances, here in this nation,
every American's life must be filled with the possibilities that come from
their God-given gifts.

One nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.



 Well, gee, after the last debate, I was told that I didn't smile enough. 


 But I also think that these are very serious times; 75 percent of the American people think the federal government is corrupt. I agree with them. And this big powerful, corrupt bureaucracy works now only for the big, the powerful, the wealthy and the well-connected. Meantime, wages have stagnated for 40 years. We have more Americans out of work or just Americans who quit looking for work for 40 years.

Ours was intended to be a citizen government. This is about more than
replacing a D with an R. We need a leader who will help us take our government
back.


 Let me just say on taxes, how long have we been talking about tax reform in Washington, D.C.? We have been talking about it for decades. We now have a 73,000-page tax code.

There have been more than 4,000 changes to the tax plan since 2001 alone.
There are loads of great ideas, great conservative ideas from wonderful think
tanks about how to reform the tax code.

The problem is we never get it done. We have talked about tax reform in every
single election for decades. It never happens. And the politicians always say
it is so complicated, nobody but a politician can figure it out.

The truth is this, the big problem, we need a leader in Washington who
understands how to get something done, not to talk about it, not to propose
it, to get it done.


 That's right, three pages.


 You know why three?


 No. You know why three? Because only if it's about three pages are you leveling the playing field between the big, the powerful, the wealthy and the well-connected who can hire the armies of lawyers and accountants and, yes, lobbyists to help them navigate their way through 73,000 pages.

Three pages is about the maximum that a single business owner or a farmer or
just a couple can understand without hiring somebody. Almost 60 percent of
American people now need to hire an expert to understand their taxes.

So yes, you're going to hear a lot of talk about tax reform —


 — the issue is who is going to get it done.




 You know, the NASDAQ dropped 80 percent — 80 percent — and it took 15 years for the NASDAQ to recover. I was recruited to H.P. to save a company.

It was a company that had grown into a bloated, inept bureaucracy that cost
too much and delivered too little to customers and shareholders. It had
missed, before I had arrived, expectations for nine quarters in a row.

As an outsider, I tackled H.P.'s entrenched problems head-on. I cut the
bureaucracy down to size, re-introduced accountability, focused on service, on
innovation, on leading in every market, in every product segment.

And yes, it was a very difficult time. However, we saved 80,000 jobs and we
went on to grow to 160,000 jobs, and scores of technology companies literally
went out of business — like Gateway — taking all their jobs with them.

The truth is I had to make some tough calls in some tough times. I think,
actually, people are looking for that in Washington now. And yes, I was fired
over a disagreement in the boardroom. There are politics in the boardroom as
well.

And yet the man who led my firing, Tom Perkins, an icon of Silicon Valley, has
come out publicly and said, "you know what? We were wrong. She was right. She
was a great CEO. She'd be a great president of the United States because the
leadership she brought to H.P. is exactly the leadership we need in
Washington, D.C.


 Well, this is one of the reasons why Tom Perkins and I had disagreements in the boardroom, Becky. 

Nevertheless, one of the things that I think people don't always understand is
how accountable a CEO actually is.

So you know, I had to report results every 90 days in excruciating detail. I
had to answer every single question about every single result and every single
projection in public until there were no more questions.

And if I misrepresented those results or those projections in any way, I was
held criminally liable. Imagine — imagine — if a politician were held to that
standard of account.

I will run on my record all day long. 

And I believe people need a leader who is prepared to make tough calls in
tough times and stand up...


 ...and be held accountable.


 You know, I want to go back for a moment to what we were just talking about. Crony capitalism is alive and well, and has been so in Washington, D.C. for decades.

What's crony capitalism? Crony capitalism is what happens when government gets
so big and so powerful that only the big and the powerful can handle it.

So why are the pharmaceutical companies consolidating? Why are there five even
bigger Wall Street banks now, instead of the ten we used to have on Wall
Street? Because when government gets big and powerful, the big feel like they
need to get even bigger to deal with all that power, and meanwhile, the small
and the powerless — in this case, 1,590 community banks — go out of business.

You see, folks, this is how socialism starts. Government causes a problem, and
then government steps in to solve the problem. This is why, fundamentally, we
have to take our government back.

The student loan problem has been created by government. Government trying to
level the playing field between Internet and brick-and-mortar creates a
problem. The FCC jumping in now and saying, "we're going to put 400 pages of
regulation over the Internet," is going to create massive problems.

But guess who pushed for that regulation? The big Internet companies. This is
what's going on. Big and powerful use big and powerful government to their
advantage.

It's why you see Walgreens buying Rite Aid. It's why you see the
pharmaceuticals getting together. It's you see the health insurance companies
getting together. It's why you see the banks consolidating.

And meanwhile, small businesses are getting crushed. Community- based
businesses and farms are getting crushed. Community banks are going out of
business. Big government favors the big, the powerful, the wealthy and the
well-connected, and crushes the small and the powerless.


 It is why we have to simplify. It is why we have to reduce the size and power of government.


 It's the only way to level the playing field between big and powerful and small and powerless.


 Becky, it is the height of hypocrisy for Mrs. Clinton to talk about being the first woman President, when every single policy she espouses, and every single policy of President Obama has been demonstrably bad for women.

92 percent — 92 percent of the jobs lost during Barack Obama's first term
belonged to women. Senator Cruz is precisely right. Three million women have
fallen into poverty under this administration. The number of women —


 — living in extreme poverty is the highest level on record. I am a conservative because I know our values, our principles and our policies —


 — work better to lift everyone up, men and women.


 No, the Federal Government should not play a larger role.

Look, every time the Federal Government gets engaged in something it gets
worse. And then the Government steps in to try and solve the problem and we
get a little further down to that progressive vision that Hillary Clinton is
talking about.

Companies should, if they want to attract the best workers, provide a good set
of benefits. But honestly, if you're a small business owner today you are
being crushed. We have 400,000 small businesses forming every year in this
country. How great is that? They are employing themselves, they are
potentially employing others.

The bad news is, we have 470,000 going out of business every year. And why?
They cite Obamacare.

They are refusing to...


 I think it's a wonderful that that businesses start a 401(k). The point I'm making is this, the Federal Government should not be in a lot of things.

There is no Constitutional role for the Federal Government in setting up —
retirement plans. There is no Constitutional role for the Federal Government
to be setting minimum wages...


 ... The more the Government gets engaged in the economy, the slower the economy becomes. The more the Government gets engaged in the economy, it is demonstrably true...


 ... The more the big, the powerful, the wealthy and the well-connected are advantaged.


 John, I — if I — a lot of people have jumped in here. I'd like to jump in. A lot of people have jumped in here.


 I understand.


 I would just say that...  ... I would just say this, we've heard a lot of great ideas up here, and I agree with what Senator Rubio said. Every election we talk about this. Every election we talk about Medicare and Social Security reform. It never happens.

I would like to start with a basic. Let us actually go to zero- based
budgeting so we know where the money is being spent. It's kind of basic. There
is a bill sitting in the House that would actually pass and have us go to
zero-based budgeting so we know where every dime of your money is being spent
instead of only talking about how much more we're going to spend year after
year after year.

My point is this. While there are lots of good ideas for reform, we have never
tackled the basics. And we finally need to tackle the basics to cut this
government down to size and hold it accountable. So let's start by knowing
where your money is being spent by the federal government.


 You know, every election we hear a lot of talk. We hear a lot of good plans. We hear actually a lot of good intentions. But somehow for decades, nothing really has changed. What we need now is a proven leader who has produced results. That's how you go from secretary to CEO. You lead and you produce results. I will cut this government down to size and hold it accountable, simplify the tax code, roll back the regulations that have been spewing out of Washington, D.C. for 50 years.

I may not be your dream candidate just yet, but I can assure you I am Hillary
Clinton's worst nightmare. And in your heart of hearts, you cannot wait to see
a debate between Hillary Clinton and Carly Fiorina. I will tell you this, I
will beat Hillary Clinton. And with your vote and your support and your
prayers, I will lead with the citizens of this great nation the resurgence of
this great nation.


 Well, first of all, I must say as I think about that question, I think about a woman I met the other day. I would guess she was 40 years old. She had several children. And she said to me, you know, Carly, I go to bed every night afraid for my children's future. And that really struck me. This is America. A mother is going to bed afraid for her children's future.

And the reason she's afraid for her children's future is because we've had
problems for a long time. Yes, problems have gotten much worse under
Democrats. But the truth is, this government has been growing bigger and
bigger, more corrupt, less effective, crushing the engine of economic growth
for a very long time. This isn't about just replacing a Democrat with a
Republican now. It's about actually challenging the status quo of big
government.

Big government has created a big business called politics. And there are lots
of people invested in the status quo of that big business called politics.
Specifically, we need actually to do five things to really get this economy
going again. We need to go to zero-based budgeting so we know where every
dollar is being spent, we can challenge any dollar, cut any dollar, move any
dollar. 

We need to actually reform the tax code. Go to a three-page tax code. Yes,
there are plans that would reform our tax code to three pages. In addition to
rolling back what President Obama has done, we need to do a top-to-bottom
review of every single regulation on the books. That hasn't been done in 50
years. We need to pass the REINS Act so Congress is in charge of regulation,
not nameless, faceless bureaucrats accountable to no one. We've become a
nation of rules, not a nation of laws.

And finally we actually, yes, have to hold government officials accountable
for their performance. All this has to be done, and the citizens of this
nation must help a President Fiorina get it done. We must take our government
back. 


 Well, first Obamacare has to be repealed because it's failing... 

...it's failing the very people it was intended to help, but, also, it is
croney-capitalism at its worst. Who helped write this bill? Drug companies,
insurance companies, pharmaceutical companies, every single one of those kinds
of companies are bulking up to deal with big government. See, that's what
happens. As government gets bigger, and bigger — and it has been for 50 years
under republicans and democrats alike — and business have to bulk up to deal
with big government.

So, we have to repeal it. It's tens of thousands of pages long, no one can
possible understand it except the big companies, the lawyers, the accountants,
the lobbyists that they hire to protect their interests. Then, we have to give
back to states the responsibility to manage a high risk pool. We need to try
the one thing in health insurance we've never tried. Health insurance has
always been a cozy, little game between regulators and health insurance
companies.

We need to try the free market. The free market. Where people actually have to
compete. 

And, we 'ought to have the government ensure that you must — and I don't use
that term often, that government 'ought to do something, but every healthcare
provider 'ought to publish its costs, its prices, its outcomes, because as
patients we don't know what we're buying.  Now, let me just say —
let me just say, I know more about innovation and entrepreneurship than anyone
on this panel because I have led innovative businesses in the most highly
competitive industry in the world for decades. The truth is the secret sauce
of America is innovation, and entrepreneurship, it is why we must cut our
government down to size, and hold it accountable. It's why we have to take our
government back, because innovation and entrepreneurship is crushed by the
crushing load of a 73,000 page tax code. It is crushed... 

...by regulatory thicket that is so vast we don't even know what's in it
anymore. It is crushed as well by government bureaucrats who don't do their
jobs very well, and who are not held accountable, which is why I've said we
got to take our government back, and to do that, we have to know where every
dollar being spent, and be able to move any dollar. We have to hack through
this regulatory thicket, repeal so much, but, also, know what's in that
regulatory thicket — we don't even know what regulations have been passed.

Third, we need to build a meritocracy — Scott Walker, by the way, is trying
now to do in Wisconsin... ...Finally, we need to get to a
three page tax code, and, yes, that plan exists.


 Sorry, I can't hear you.


 ...Absolutely...


 ...You need to give...


 The alternative is to allow states to manage high risk pools for those who really need help. Look, I'm a cancer survivor, OK? I understand that you cannot have someone who's battled cancer just become known as a pre-existing condition. I understand that you cannot allow families to go bankrupt if they truly need help. But, I also understand that Obamacare isn't helping anyone.

We're throwing more, and more people into Medicaid, and fewer, and fewer
doctors are taking those payments.

The point is Obamacare is crushing small businesses, it is not helping the
families it was intended to help. So, let us allow states to manage high risk
pools. Let us try the one thing in health insurance we've never tried, the
free market. Let us ensure that as patients, and customers...


 ...that we have information to shop wisely for our health care.


 ...Yes, the middle ground is this...


 ...This is why — this is why we must combine, actually, zero-based budgeting with tax reform because unless we can examine, and cut, and move, every single dollar of discretionary spending in the federal government, we cannot reform taxes and reduce spending at the same time.

Ask yourself this question, how is it possible that the federal government
gets more money each and every year, which the federal government has been
doing, receiving more money every year for 50 years under republicans and
democrats alike, and yet, never has enough money to do the important things?

The answer? All the money's always spoken for. All the money's spoken for. So,
we have to go to zero-based budgeting, which is a simple idea — by the way,
there's been a bill for zeros-based (ph) budgeting...  ...It
exists, it can be voted on. Every dollar must be examined. Any dollar can be
cut. Any dollar can be cut, any dollar can be moved. We have to go to a three
page tax code. You lower every rate, you close every loophole, why? Because
the government uses the tax code to decide winners, and losers. You have to
strip the corruption out of the tax code to pay for it. You have to know where
every single dollar is being spent...


 ...Cut where you need to, and invest where you need to...


 ...The two go hand in hand...


 You know, Mr. Trump fancies himself a very good negotiator. And, I accept that he's done a lot of good deals, so, Mr. Trump 'ought to know that we should not speak to people from a position of weakness. Senator Paul should know that as well.

One of the reasons I've said that I would not be talking to Vladimir Putin
right now, although I have met him as well, not in a green room for a show,
but in a private meeting. 

One of the reasons I've said I wouldn't be talking to Vladimir Putin right now
is because we are speaking to him from a position of weakness brought on by
this administration, so, I wouldn't talk to him for awhile, but, I would do
this. I would start rebuilding the Sixth Fleet right under his nose,
rebuilding the military — the missile defense program in Poland right under
his nose. I would conduct very aggressive military exercises in the Baltic
States so that he understood we would protect our NATO allies... [_bell
ringing_] ...and I might also put in a few more thousand troops into Germany,
not to start a war, but to make sure that Putin understand that the United
States of America will stand with our allies. That is why Governor Bush is
correct. We must have a no fly zone in Syria because Russia cannot tell the
United States of America where and when to fly our planes. We also have a set
of allies...  ...We also have a set of allies in the Arab Middle
East that know that ISIS is their fight. They have asked us specifically over,
and over again to support them. King Abdullah of Jordan, a man I've known for
a very long time, has asked us for bombs and material, we have not provided
it.

The Egyptians are asking us to share intelligence, we are not, I will. The
Kurds have asked us to arm them for three years, we are not, I would. The
Egyptians, the Saudis, the Kuwaitis, the Bahrain's, the Emirati, the Kurds...
 ...all of these, I know, by the way, understand ISIS is their
fight, but they must see leadership support and resolve from the United States
of America...


 ...we have the strongest military on the face of the planet, and everyone has to know it. 


 ...Ronald Reagan walked away at Reykjavik.


 ...he walked away, he quit talks...


 ...when it was time to quit talking...


 Can I just — could I just say, as a chief executive who's had to make tough calls to save jobs and to grow jobs, I think what's interesting about Dodd-Frank is it's a great example of how socialism starts.

Socialism starts when government creates a problem, and then government steps
in to solve the problem. Government created the problem. 

Government created the problem of a real estate boom. How did we create it?
Under Republican and Democrats alike, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, everybody
gathered together, Republicans and Democrats, and said, "home ownership is
part of the American dream. Let's create a bubble," and then government
stepped in — by the way, under president George W. Bush, banks were told —
encouraged — told, really — to buy other banks, to take money.

And now what do we have with Dodd-Frank? The classic of crony capitalism. The
big have gotten bigger, 1,590 community banks have gone out of business, and
on top of all that, we've created something called the Consumer Financial
Production Bureau, a vast bureaucracy with no congressional oversight that's
digging through hundreds of millions of your credit records to detect fraud.

This is how socialism starts, ladies and gentlemen. We must take our
government back. 


 Imagine a Clinton presidency. Our military will continue to deteriorate. Our veterans will not be cared for. And, no, Mrs. Clinton, that situation is not exaggerated. The rich will get richer. The poor will get poorer. The middle class will continue to get crushed.

And as bad as that picture is, what's even worse is that a Clinton presidency
will corrode the character of this nation. Why? Because of the Clinton way:
Say whatever you have to, lie as long as you can get away with it.

We must beat Hillary Clinton. Carly Fiorina can beat Hillary Clinton. I will
beat Hillary Clinton. And under a President Fiorina, we will restore the
character of this nation, the security of this nation, the prosperity of this
nation, because as citizens, we will take our government back. 


 Like all of you I'm angry. I'm angry at what's happening to our nation. Citizens, it's time to take our country back.

Bombastic insults wont take it back. Political rhetoric that promises a lot
and delivers little, won't take it back. All of our problems can be solved.
All of our wounds can be healed by a tested leader who is willing to fight for
the character of our nation.

I have been tested. I have beaten breast cancer. I have buried a child. I
started as a secretary. I fought my way to the top of corporate America while
being called every B word in the book. I fought my way into this election and
on to this debate stage while all the political insiders and the pundits told,
"it couldn't be done."

I've been told, "no,: all my life. And all my life, I've refused to accept no
as an answer. Citizens, it is time to take our country back from the political
class, from the media, from the liberal elite. It can be done, it must be
done, join me and we will get it done. 


 What I think we need to stand for are solutions. I offer myself as a leader to the people of this country because I think they're looking for solutions, not lawyers arguing over laws or entertainers throwing out sound bites that draw media attention. We need to solve the problem.

To solve the problem, we need to do something here at home and something over
there in their caliphate. We need to deny them territory.

But here at home, we need to do two fundamental things. Number one, we need to
recognize that technology has moved on. The Patriot Act was signed in 2001,
roughly. The iPhone was invented in 2007. The iPad was invented in 2011.
Snapchat and Twitter, all the rest of it, have been around just for several
years. Technology has moved on, and the terrorists have moved on with it.

Let me tell you a story. Soon after 9/11, I got a phone call from the NSA.
They needed help. I gave them help. I stopped a truckload of equipment. I had
it turned around. It was escorted by the NSA into headquarters. We need the
private sector's help, because government is not innovating. Technology is
running ahead by leaps and bound. The private sector will help, just as I
helped after 9/11. But they must be engaged, and they must be asked. I will
ask them. I know them. 


 You know, listening to this conversation, let me just say, we have a lot of argument about laws but none of it solves the problem. Let's examine what happened, why did we miss the Tsarnaev brothers, why did we miss the San Bernardino couple? It wasn't because we had stopped collected metadata it was because, I think, as someone who comes from the technology world, we were using the wrong algorithms.

This is a place where the private sector could be helpful because the
government is woefully behind the technology curve. But secondly, the
bureaucratic processes that have been in place since 9/11 are woefully
inadequate as well. What do we now know? That DHS vets people by going into
databases of known or suspected terrorists.

And yet, we also know that ISIS is recruiting who are not in those databases.
So of course, we're going to miss them. And then we now learn that DHS says,
"No, we can't check their social media."

For heaven's sakes, every parent in America is checking social media and every
employer is as well, but our government can't do it. The bureaucratic
procedures are so far behind. Our government has become incompetent,
unresponsive, corrupt. And that incompetence, ineptitude, lack of
accountability is now dangerous.

It is why we need a different kind of leadership in the White House that
understands how to get bureaucracies competent again.


 They do not need to be forced. They need to be asked to bring the best and brightest, the most recent technology to the table. I was asked as a CEO. I complied happily. And they will as well. But they have not been asked. That's why it cost billions of dollars to build an Obama website that failed because the private sector wasn't asked. 


 I hope at some point you're going to ask me my strategy.


 Well, first I'll just point out that talking tough is not the same as being strong. And to wage war, we need a commander in chief who has made tough calls in tough times and stood up to be held accountable over and over, not first-term senators who've never made an executive decision in their life.

One of the things I would immediately do, in addition to defeating them here
at home, is bring back the warrior class — Petraeus, McChrystal, Mattis,
Keane, Flynn. Every single one of these generals I know. Every one was retired
early because they told President Obama things that he didn't want to hear.

We must have Sunni-Arabs involved in this coalition. We must commit
leadership, strength, support and resolve. I'll just add that Margaret
Thatcher once said, "If you want something talked about, ask a man; if you
want something done, ask a woman." 


 That is exactly what President Obama said. I'm amazed to hear that from a republican presidential candidate. But let's just start with, who got it wrong? Who really got it wrong?

Hillary Clinton has gotten every foreign policy challenge wrong. Hitting the
reset button with Vladimir Putin – recall that she called Bashar Al-Assad a
positive reformer and then she opened an embassy and then later she said,
over, and over, and over again, "Bashar Al-Assad must go." Although she wasn't
prepared to do anything about it. Recall that Hillary Clinton was all for
toppling Gadhafi then didn't listen to her own people on the ground. And then
of course, when she lied about the terrorist attack in Benghazi, she invited
more terrorist attacks.


 We've mismanaged going into Iraq.


 We've mismanaged going out of Iraq.


 We actually...


 I didn't say I would cut off all communication with Putin. What I said was as president of the United States, now is not the time to talk with him. Reagan walked away at Reykjavik. There is a time and a place for everything. There is a time and a place for talk. And there is a time and a place for action.

I know Vladimir Putin. He respects strength. He lied to our president's face;
didn't both to tell him about warplanes and troops going into Syria. We need
to speak to him from a position of strength. So as commander in chief, I will
not speak to him until we've set up that no-fly zone; until we've gathered our
Sunni-Arab allies and begun to deny ISIS territory; until I've called the
supreme leader of Iran and told him new deal — new deal. We the United States
of America are going to cut off the money flow, which we can do; which we
don't need anyone's permission or collaboration to do.

And I will not speak to him personally until we've rebuilt the 6th Fleet a
little bit right under his nose; rebuilt the missile defense program in Poland
right under his nose; and conducted a few military exercises in the Baltic
states.

And let us remember one other thing. Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama are
responsible for the growth of ISIS because they precipitously withdrew from
Iraq in 2011 against the advice of every single general and for political
expediency. It's not these people up here. It's Hillary Clinton. 


 This doesn't do a thing to solve the problems..
 It will not solve the problem.


 Ladies and gentleman, this is why the American people are standing up.


 This is why the nation is fed up...


 We have been talking about this...


 Sorry, but you haven't gotten to me. This is why...


 the people are fed up with the political class.


 Well, first, Kim Jong-Un is a dangerous leader, without a doubt. And both Republican and Democrat administrations have been completely ineffective in dealing with him. So we must continue to isolate him. We will need China as part of that strategy.

China is a rising adversary. So one of the things we have to do if we want
China's support is to push back on China. They, too, recognize one thing —
strength and their own economic interest.

I have done business in China for 25 years, so I know that in order to get
China to cooperate with us, we must first actually retaliate against their
cyber-attacks so they know we're serious. We have to push back on their desire
to control the trade route through the South China Sea through which flows $5
trillion worth of goods and services every year.

We cannot let them control the disputed islands, and we must work with the
Australians, the South Koreans, the Japanese and the Filipinos to contain
China. And then we must ask for their support and their help with North Korea.
Because believe it or not, China is as concerned about Kim Jong-Un as we are.


 I too remember September 11th. I remember immediately putting into place security procedures all throughout our company that did business in 170 countries where we thought corporate interests would be attacked next. To take our country back, to keep our nation safe, we have to begin by beating Hillary Clinton.

We need to unify our party. We need to better than our government, which 75
percent of the American people now think is corrupt and incompetent. They're
right. We need to better than our politics. 80 percent think we have a
professional/political class of both parties that cares more about its power,
position and privilege than actually on getting anything done.

We need to unify our party, we need a real Conservative in the White House,
and we need to beat Hillary Clinton to take our country back and keep our
nation safe.

I can. I am. And together, if you join me, we will take our country back.


