 Nice to meet you. 


 Hey, can I call you Joe? 


 Thank you. 

Thank you, Gwen. Thank you. Thank you.


 Thank you, Gwen. And I thank the commission, also. I appreciate this privilege of being able to be here and speak with Americans. 

You know, I think a good barometer here, as we try to figure out has this been
a good time or a bad time in America's economy, is go to a kid's soccer game
on Saturday, and turn to any parent there on the sideline and ask them, "How
are you feeling about the economy?"

And I'll bet you, you're going to hear some fear in that parent's voice, fear
regarding the few investments that some of us have in the stock market. Did we
just take a major hit with those investments?

Fear about, how are we going to afford to send our kids to college? A fear, as
small-business owners, perhaps, how we're going to borrow any money to
increase inventory or hire more people.

The barometer there, I think, is going to be resounding that our economy is
hurting and the federal government has not provided the sound oversight that
we need and that we deserve, and we need reform to that end.

Now, John McCain thankfully has been one representing reform. Two years ago,
remember, it was John McCain who pushed so hard with the Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac reform measures. He sounded that warning bell.

People in the Senate with him, his colleagues, didn't want to listen to him
and wouldn't go towards that reform that was needed then. I think that the
alarm has been heard, though, and there will be that greater oversight, again
thanks to John McCain's bipartisan efforts that he was so instrumental in
bringing folks together over this past week, even suspending his own campaign
to make sure he was putting excessive politics aside and putting the country
first.


 John McCain, in referring to the fundamental of our economy being strong, he was talking to and he was talking about the American workforce. And the American workforce is the greatest in this world, with the ingenuity and the work ethic that is just entrenched in our workforce. That's a positive. That's encouragement. And that's what John McCain meant. 

Now, what I've done as a governor and as a mayor is (inaudible) I've had that
track record of reform. And I've joined this team that is a team of mavericks
with John McCain, also, with his track record of reform, where we're known for
putting partisan politics aside to just get the job done.

Now, Barack Obama, of course, he's pretty much only voted along his party
lines. In fact, 96 percent of his votes have been solely along party line, not
having that proof for the American people to know that his commitment, too,
is, you know, put the partisanship, put the special interests aside, and get
down to getting business done for the people of America.

We're tired of the old politics as usual. And that's why, with all due
respect, I do respect your years in the U.S. Senate, but I think Americans are
craving something new and different and that new energy and that new
commitment that's going to come with reform.

I think that's why we need to send the maverick from the Senate and put him in
the White House, and I'm happy to join him there.


 Darn right it was the predator lenders, who tried to talk Americans into thinking that it was smart to buy a $300,000 house if we could only afford a $100,000 house. There was deception there, and there was greed and there is corruption on Wall Street. And we need to stop that. 

Again, John McCain and I, that commitment that we have made, and we're going
to follow through on that, getting rid of that corruption.


 One thing that Americans do at this time, also, though, is let's commit ourselves just every day American people, Joe Six Pack, hockey moms across the nation, I think we need to band together and say never again. Never will we be exploited and taken advantage of again by those who are managing our money and loaning us these dollars. We need to make sure that we demand from the federal government strict oversight of those entities in charge of our investments and our savings and we need also to not get ourselves in debt. Let's do what our parents told us before we probably even got that first credit card. Don't live outside of our means. We need to make sure that as individuals we're taking personal responsibility through all of this. It's not the American peoples fault that the economy is hurting like it is, but we have an opportunity to learn a heck of a lot of good lessons through this and say never again will we be taken advantage of. 


 I would like to respond about the tax increases. We can speak in agreement here that darn right we need tax relief for Americans so that jobs can be created here. Now, Barack Obama and Senator Biden also voted for the largest tax increases in U.S. history. Barack had 94 opportunities to side on the people's side and reduce taxes and 94 times he voted to increase taxes or not support a tax reduction, 94 times. 

Now, that's not what we need to create jobs and really bolster and heat up our
economy. We do need the private sector to be able to keep more of what we earn
and produce. Government is going to have to learn to be more efficient and
live with less if that's what it takes to reign in the government growth that
we've seen today. But we do need tax relief and Barack Obama even supported
increasing taxes as late as last year for those families making only $42,000 a
year. That's a lot of middle income average American families to increase
taxes on them. I think that is the way to kill jobs and to continue to harm
our economy.


 I'm still on the tax thing because I want to correct you on that again. And I want to let you know what I did as a mayor and as a governor. And I may not answer the questions that either the moderator or you want to hear, but I'm going to talk straight to the American people and let them know my track record also. As mayor, every year I was in office I did reduce taxes. I eliminated personal property taxes and eliminated small business inventory taxes and as governor we suspended our state fuel tax. We did all of those things knowing that that is how our economy would be heated up. Now, as for John McCain's adherence to rules and regulations and pushing for even harder and tougher regulations, that is another thing that he is known for though. Look at the tobacco industry. Look at campaign finance reform. 


 I do take issue with some of the principle there with that redistribution of wealth principle that seems to be espoused by you. But when you talk about Barack's plan to tax increase affecting only those making $250,000 a year or more, you're forgetting millions of small businesses that are going to fit into that category. So they're going to be the ones paying higher taxes thus resulting in fewer jobs being created and less productivity. 

Now you said recently that higher taxes or asking for higher taxes or paying
higher taxes is patriotic. In the middle class of America which is where Todd
and I have been all of our lives, that's not patriotic. Patriotic is saying,
government, you know, you're not always the solution. In fact, too often
you're the problem so, government, lessen the tax burden and on our families
and get out of the way and let the private sector and our families grow and
thrive and prosper. An increased tax formula that Barack Obama is proposing in
addition to nearly a trillion dollars in new spending that he's proposing is
the backwards way of trying to grow our economy.


 I am because he's got a good health care plan that is detailed. And I want to give you a couple details on that. He's proposing a $5,000 tax credit for families so that they can get out there and they can purchase their own health care coverage. That's a smart thing to do. That's budget neutral. That doesn't cost the government anything as opposed to Barack Obama's plan to mandate health care coverage and have universal government run program and unless you're pleased with the way the federal government has been running anything lately, I don't think that it's going to be real pleasing for Americans to consider health care being taken over by the feds. But a $5,000 health care credit through our income tax that's budget neutral. That's going to help. And he also wants to erase those artificial lines between states so that through competition, we can cross state lines and if there's a better plan offered somewhere else, we would be able to purchase that. So affordability and accessibility will be the keys there with that $5,000 tax credit also being offered. 


 Well, the nice thing about running with John McCain is I can assure you he doesn't tell one thing to one group and then turns around and tells something else to another group, including his plans that will make this bailout plan, this rescue plan, even better. 

I want to go back to the energy plan, though, because this is -- this is an
important one that Barack Obama, he voted for in '05.

Senator Biden, you would remember that, in that energy plan that Obama voted
for, that's what gave those oil companies those big tax breaks. Your running
mate voted for that.

You know what I had to do in the state of Alaska? I had to take on those oil
companies and tell them, "No," you know, any of the greed there that has been
kind of instrumental, I guess, in their mode of operation, that wasn't going
to happen in my state.

And that's why Tillerson at Exxon and Mulva at ConocoPhillips, bless their
hearts, they're doing what they need to do, as corporate CEOs, but they're not
my biggest fans, because what I had to do up there in Alaska was to break up a
monopoly up there and say, you know, the people are going to come first and
we're going to make sure that we have value given to the people of Alaska with
those resources.

And those huge tax breaks aren't coming to the big multinational corporations
anymore, not when it adversely affects the people who live in a state and, in
this case, in a country who should be benefiting at the same time. So it was
Barack Obama who voted for that energy plan that gave those tax breaks to the
oil companies that I then had to turn around, as a governor of an energy-
producing state, and kind of undo in my own area of expertise, and that's
energy.


 There is not. And how long have I been at this, like five weeks? So there hasn't been a whole lot that I've promised, except to do what is right for the American people, put government back on the side of the American people, stop the greed and corruption on Wall Street. 

And the rescue plan has got to include that massive oversight that Americans
are expecting and deserving. And I don't believe that John McCain has made any
promise that he would not be able to keep, either.


 Yes, I would have. But here, again, there have -- there have been so many changes in the conditions of our economy in just even these past weeks that there has been more and more revelation made aware now to Americans about the corruption and the greed on Wall Street. 

We need to look back, even two years ago, and we need to be appreciative of
John McCain's call for reform with Fannie Mae, with Freddie Mac, with the
mortgage-lenders, too, who were starting to really kind of rear that head of
abuse.

And the colleagues in the Senate weren't going to go there with him. So we
have John McCain to thank for at least warning people. And we also have John
McCain to thank for bringing in a bipartisan effort people to the table so
that we can start putting politics aside, even putting a campaign aside, and
just do what's right to fix this economic problem that we are in.

It is a crisis. It's a toxic mess, really, on Main Street that's affecting
Wall Street. And now we have to be ever vigilant and also making sure that
credit markets don't seize up. That's where the Main Streeters like me, that's
where we would really feel the effects.


 That is not so, but because that's just a quick answer, I want to talk about, again, my record on energy versus your ticket's energy ticket, also. 

I think that this is important to come back to, with that energy policy plan
again that was voted for in '05.

When we talk about energy, we have to consider the need to do all that we can
to allow this nation to become energy independent.

It's a nonsensical position that we are in when we have domestic supplies of
energy all over this great land. And East Coast politicians who don't allow
energy-producing states like Alaska to produce these, to tap into them, and
instead we're relying on foreign countries to produce for us.


 We're circulating about $700 billion a year into foreign countries, some who do not like America -- they certainly don't have our best interests at heart -- instead of those dollars circulating here, creating tens of thousands of jobs and allowing domestic supplies of energy to be tapped into and start flowing into these very, very hungry markets. 

Energy independence is the key to this nation's future, to our economic
future, and to our national security. So when we talk about energy plans, it's
not just about who got a tax break and who didn't. And we're not giving oil
companies tax breaks, but it's about a heck of a lot more than that.

Energy independence is the key to America's future.


 Yes. Well, as the nation's only Arctic state and being the governor of that state, Alaska feels and sees impacts of climate change more so than any other state. And we know that it's real. 

I'm not one to attribute every man -- activity of man to the changes in the
climate. There is something to be said also for man's activities, but also for
the cyclical temperature changes on our planet.

But there are real changes going on in our climate. And I don't want to argue
about the causes. What I want to argue about is, how are we going to get there
to positively affect the impacts?

We have got to clean up this planet. We have got to encourage other nations
also to come along with us with the impacts of climate change, what we can do
about that.

As governor, I was the first governor to form a climate change sub-cabinet to
start dealing with the impacts. We've got to reduce emissions. John McCain is
right there with an "all of the above" approach to deal with climate change
impacts.

We've got to become energy independent for that reason. Also as we rely more
and more on other countries that don't care as much about the climate as we
do, we're allowing them to produce and to emit and even pollute more than
America would ever stand for. So even in dealing with climate change, it's all
the more reason that we have an "all of the above" approach, tapping into
alternative sources of energy and conserving fuel, conserving our petroleum
products and our hydrocarbons so that we can clean up this planet and deal
with climate change.


 Yes, Senator McCain does support this. The chant is "drill, baby, drill." And that's what we hear all across this country in our rallies because people are so hungry for those domestic sources of energy to be tapped into. They know that even in my own energy-producing state we have billions of barrels of oil and hundreds of trillions of cubic feet of clean, green natural gas. And we're building a nearly $40 billion natural gas pipeline which is North America's largest and most you expensive infrastructure project ever to flow those sources of energy into hungry markets. 

Barack Obama and Senator Biden, you've said no to everything in trying to find
a domestic solution to the energy crisis that we're in. You even called
drilling -- safe, environmentally-friendly drilling offshore as raping the
outer continental shelf.

There -- with new technology, with tiny footprints even on land, it is safe to
drill and we need to do more of that. But also in that "all of the above"
approach that Senator McCain supports, the alternative fuels will be tapped
into: the nuclear, the clean coal.

I was surprised to hear you mention that because you had said that there isn't
anything -- such a thing as clean coal. And I think you said it in a rope
line, too, at one of your rallies.


 I do. I do. 


 Well, not if it goes closer and closer towards redefining the traditional definition of marriage between one man and one woman. And unfortunately that's sometimes where those steps lead. 

But I also want to clarify, if there's any kind of suggestion at all from my
answer that I would be anything but tolerant of adults in America choosing
their partners, choosing relationships that they deem best for themselves, you
know, I am tolerant and I have a very diverse family and group of friends and
even within that group you would see some who may not agree with me on this
issue, some very dear friends who don't agree with me on this issue.

But in that tolerance also, no one would ever propose, not in a McCain-Palin
administration, to do anything to prohibit, say, visitations in a hospital or
contracts being signed, negotiated between parties.

But I will tell Americans straight up that I don't support defining marriage
as anything but between one man and one woman, and I think through nuances we
can go round and round about what that actually means.

But I'm being as straight up with Americans as I can in my non- support for
anything but a traditional definition of marriage.


 Your question to him was whether he supported gay marriage and my answer is the same as his and it is that I do not. 


 I am very thankful that we do have a good plan and the surge and the counterinsurgency strategy in Iraq that has proven to work, I am thankful that that is part of the plan implemented under a great American hero, General Petraeus, and pushed hard by another great American, Senator John McCain. 

I know that the other ticket opposed this surge, in fact, even opposed funding
for our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan. Barack Obama voted against funding
troops there after promising that he would not do so.


 And Senator Biden, I respected you when you called him out on that. You said that his vote was political and you said it would cost lives. And Barack Obama at first said he would not do that. He turned around under political pressure and he voted against funding the troops. We do have a plan for withdrawal. We don't need early withdrawal out of Iraq. We cannot afford to lose there or we're going to be no better off in the war in Afghanistan either. We have got to win in Iraq. 

And with the surge that has worked we're now down to presurge numbers in Iraq.
That's where we can be. We can start putting more troops in Afghanistan as we
also work with our NATO allies who are there strengthening us and we need to
grow our military. We cannot afford to lose against al Qaeda and the Shia
extremists who are still there, still fighting us, but we're getting closer
and closer to victory. And it would be a travesty if we quit now in Iraq.


 Your plan is a white flag of surrender in Iraq and that is not what our troops need to hear today, that's for sure. And it's not what our nation needs to be able to count on. You guys opposed the surge. The surge worked. Barack Obama still can't admit the surge works. 

We'll know when we're finished in Iraq when the Iraqi government can govern
its people and when the Iraqi security forces can secure its people. And our
commanders on the ground will tell us when those conditions have been met. And
Maliki and Talabani also in working with us are knowing again that we are
getting closer and closer to that point, that victory that's within sight.

Now, you said regarding Senator McCain's military policies there, Senator
Biden, that you supported a lot of these things. In fact, you said in fact
that you wanted to run, you'd be honored to run with him on the ticket. That's
an indication I think of some of the support that you had at least until you
became the VP pick here.

You also said that Barack Obama was not ready to be commander in chief. And I
know again that you opposed the move he made to try to cut off funding for the
troops and I respect you for that. I don't know how you can defend that
position now but I know that you know especially with your son in the National
Guard and I have great respect for your family also and the honor that you
show our military. Barack Obama though, another story there. Anyone I think
who can cut off funding for the troops after promising not to is another
story.


 Both are extremely dangerous, of course. And as for who coined that central war on terror being in Iraq, it was the General Petraeus and al Qaeda, both leaders there and it's probably the only thing that they're ever going to agree on, but that it was a central war on terror is in Iraq. You don't have to believe me or John McCain on that. I would believe Petraeus and the leader of al Qaeda. 

An armed, nuclear armed especially Iran is so extremely dangerous to consider.
They cannot be allowed to acquire nuclear weapons period. Israel is in
jeopardy of course when we're dealing with Ahmadinejad as a leader of Iran.
Iran claiming that Israel as he termed it, a stinking corpse, a country that
should be wiped off the face of the earth. Now a leader like Ahmadinejad who
is not sane or stable when he says things like that is not one whom we can
allow to acquire nuclear energy, nuclear weapons. Ahmadinejad, Kim Jong Il,
the Castro brothers, others who are dangerous dictators are one that Barack
Obama has said he would be willing to meet with without preconditions being
met first.

And an issue like that taken up by a presidential candidate goes beyond
naivete and goes beyond poor judgment. A statement that he made like that is
downright dangerous because leaders like Ahmadinejad who would seek to acquire
nuclear weapons and wipe off the face of the earth an ally like we have in
Israel should not be met with without preconditions and diplomatic efforts
being undertaken first.


 No and Dr. Henry Kissinger especially. I had a good conversation with him recently. And he shared with me his passion for diplomacy. And that's what John McCain and I would engage in also. But again, with some of these dictators who hate America and hate what we stand for, with our freedoms, our democracy, our tolerance, our respect for women's rights, those who would try to destroy what we stand for cannot be met with just sitting down on a presidential level as Barack Obama had said he would be willing to do. That is beyond bad judgment. That is dangerous. 

No, diplomacy is very important. First and foremost, that is what we would
engage in. But diplomacy is hard work by serious people. It's lining out clear
objectives and having your friends and your allies ready to back you up there
and have sanctions lined up before any kind of presidential summit would take
place.


 Yes. 


 A two-state solution is the solution. And Secretary Rice, having recently met with leaders on one side or the other there, also, still in these waning days of the Bush administration, trying to forge that peace, and that needs to be done, and that will be top of an agenda item, also, under a McCain-Palin administration. 

Israel is our strongest and best ally in the Middle East. We have got to
assure them that we will never allow a second Holocaust, despite, again,
warnings from Iran and any other country that would seek to destroy Israel,
that that is what they would like to see.

We will support Israel. A two-state solution, building our embassy, also, in
Jerusalem, those things that we look forward to being able to accomplish, with
this peace-seeking nation, and they have a track record of being able to forge
these peace agreements.

They succeeded with Jordan. They succeeded with Egypt. I'm sure that we're
going to see more success there, also.

It's got to be a commitment of the United States of America, though. And I can
promise you, in a McCain-Palin administration, that commitment is there to
work with our friends in Israel.


 No, I do not believe that it has been. But I'm so encouraged to know that we both love Israel, and I think that is a good thing to get to agree on, Senator Biden. I respect your position on that. 

No, in fact, when we talk about the Bush administration, there's a time, too,
when Americans are going to say, "Enough is enough with your ticket," on
constantly looking backwards, and pointing fingers, and doing the blame game.

There have been huge blunders in the war. There have been huge blunders
throughout this administration, as there are with every administration.

But for a ticket that wants to talk about change and looking into the future,
there's just too much finger-pointing backwards to ever make us believe that
that's where you're going.

Positive change is coming, though. Reform of government is coming. We'll learn
from the past mistakes in this administration and other administrations.

And we're going to forge ahead with putting government back on the side of the
people and making sure that our country comes first, putting obsessive
partisanship aside.

That's what John McCain has been known for in all these years. He has been the
maverick. He has ruffled feathers.

But I know, Senator Biden, you have respected for them that, and I respect you
for acknowledging that. But change is coming.


 Nuclear weaponry, of course, would be the be all, end all of just too many people in too many parts of our planet, so those dangerous regimes, again, cannot be allowed to acquire nuclear weapons, period. 

Our nuclear weaponry here in the U.S. is used as a deterrent. And that's a
safe, stable way to use nuclear weaponry.

But for those countries -- North Korea, also, under Kim Jong-il -- we have got
to make sure that we're putting the economic sanctions on these countries and
that we have friends and allies supporting us in this to make sure that
leaders like Kim Jong-il and Ahmadinejad are not allowed to acquire, to
proliferate, or to use those nuclear weapons. It is that important.

Can we talk about Afghanistan real quick, also, though?


 OK, I'd like to just really quickly mention there, too, that when you look back and you say that the Bush administration's policy on Afghanistan perhaps would be the same as McCain, and that's not accurate. 

The surge principles, not the exact strategy, but the surge principles that
have worked in Iraq need to be implemented in Afghanistan, also. And that,
perhaps, would be a difference with the Bush administration.

Now, Barack Obama had said that all we're doing in Afghanistan is air-raiding
villages and killing civilians. And such a reckless, reckless comment and
untrue comment, again, hurts our cause.

That's not what we're doing there. We're fighting terrorists, and we're
securing democracy, and we're building schools for children there so that
there is opportunity in that country, also. There will be a big difference
there, and we will win in -- in Afghanistan, also.


 Well, first, McClellan did not say definitively the surge principles would not work in Afghanistan. Certainly, accounting for different conditions in that different country and conditions are certainly different. We have NATO allies helping us for one and even the geographic differences are huge but the counterinsurgency principles could work in Afghanistan. McClellan didn't say anything opposite of that. The counterinsurgency strategy going into Afghanistan, clearing, holding, rebuilding, the civil society and the infrastructure can work in Afghanistan. And those leaders who are over there, who have also been advising George Bush on this have not said anything different but that. 


 Well, our commanding general did say that. The fact of the matter is that again, I'll just put in perspective, while Barack and I and Chuck Hagel and Dick Lugar have been calling for more money to help in Afghanistan, more troops in Afghanistan, John McCain was saying two years ago quote, "The reason we don't read about Afghanistan anymore in the paper, it's succeeded. 

Barack Obama was saying we need more troops there. Again, we spend in three
weeks on combat missions in Iraq, more than we spent in the entire time we
have been in Afghanistan. That will change in a Barack Obama administration.


 Oh, yeah, it's so obvious I'm a Washington outsider. And someone just not used to the way you guys operate. Because here you voted for the war and now you oppose the war. You're one who says, as so many politicians do, I was for it before I was against it or vice- versa. Americans are craving that straight talk and just want to know, hey, if you voted for it, tell us why you voted for it and it was a war resolution. 

And you had supported John McCain's military strategies pretty adamantly until
this race and you had opposed very adamantly Barack Obama's military strategy,
including cutting off funding for the troops that attempt all through the
primary.

And I watched those debates, so I remember what those were all about.

But as for as Darfur, we can agree on that also, the supported of the no-fly
zone, making sure that all options are on the table there also.

America is in a position to help. What I've done in my position to help, as
the governor of a state that's pretty rich in natural resources, we have a $40
billion investment fund, a savings fund called the Alaska Permanent Fund.

When I and others in the legislature found out we had some millions of dollars
in Sudan, we called for divestment through legislation of those dollars to
make sure we weren't doing anything that would be seen as condoning the
activities there in Darfur. That legislation hasn't passed yet but it needs to
because all of us, as individuals, and as humanitarians and as elected
officials should do all we can to end those atrocities in that region of the
world.


 I beg to disagree with you, again, here on whether you supported Barack Obama or John McCain's strategies. Here again, you can say what you want to say a month out before people are asked to vote on this, but we listened to the debates. 

I think tomorrow morning, the pundits are going to start do the who said what
at what time and we'll have proof of some of this, but, again, John McCain who
knows how to win a war. Who's been there and he's faced challenges and he
knows what evil is and knows what it takes to overcome the challenges here
with our military.

He knows to learn from the mistakes and blunders we have seen in the war in
Iraq, especially. He will know how to implement the strategies, working with
our commanders and listening to what they have to say, taking the politics out
of these war issues. He'll know how to win a war.


 And heaven forbid, yes, that would ever happen, no matter how this ends up, that that would ever happen with either party. 

As for disagreeing with John McCain and how our administration would work,
what do you expect? A team of mavericks, of course we're not going to agree on
100 percent of everything. As we discuss ANWR there, at least we can agree to
disagree on that one. I will keep pushing him on ANWR. I have so appreciated
he has never asked me to check my opinions at the door and he wants a
deliberative debate and healthy debate so we can make good policy.

What I would do also, if that were to ever happen, though, is to continue the
good work he is so committed to of putting government back on the side of the
people and get rid of the greed and corruption on Wall Street and in
Washington.

I think we need a little bit of reality from Wasilla Main Street there,
brought to Washington, DC.


 So that people there can understand how the average working class family is viewing bureaucracy in the federal government and Congress and inaction of Congress. 

Just everyday working class Americans saying, you know, government, just get
out of my way. If you're going to do any harm and mandate more things on me
and take more of my money and income tax and business taxes, you're going to
have a choice in just a few weeks here on either supporting a ticket that
wants to create jobs and bolster our economy and win the war or you're going
to be supporting a ticket that wants to increase taxes, which ultimately kills
jobs, and is going to hurt our economy.


 Say it ain't so, Joe, there you go again pointing backwards again. You preferenced your whole comment with the Bush administration. Now doggone it, let's look ahead and tell Americans what we have to plan to do for them in the future. You mentioned education and I'm glad you did. I know education you are passionate about with your wife being a teacher for 30 years, and god bless her. Her reward is in heaven, right? I say, too, with education, America needs to be putting a lot more focus on that and our schools have got to be really ramped up in terms of the funding that they are deserving. Teachers needed to be paid more. I come from a house full of school teachers. My grandma was, my dad who is in the audience today, he's a schoolteacher, had been for many years. My brother, who I think is the best schoolteacher in the year, and here's a shout-out to all those third graders at Gladys Wood Elementary School, you get extra credit for watching the debate. 

Education credit in American has been in some sense in some of our states just
accepted to be a little bit lax and we have got to increase the standards. No
Child Left Behind was implemented. It's not doing the job though. We need
flexibility in No Child Left Behind. We need to put more of an emphasis on the
profession of teaching. We need to make sure that education in either one of
our agendas, I think, absolute top of the line. My kids as public school
participants right now, it's near and dear to my heart. I'm very, very
concerned about where we're going with education and we have got to ramp it up
and put more attention in that arena.


 In my comment there, it was a lame attempt at a joke and yours was a lame attempt at a joke, too, I guess, because nobody got it. Of course we know what a vice president does. 


 No, no. Of course, we know what a vice president does. And that's not only to preside over the Senate and will take that position very seriously also. I'm thankful the Constitution would allow a bit more authority given to the vice president if that vice president so chose to exert it in working with the Senate and making sure that we are supportive of the president's policies and making sure too that our president understands what our strengths are. John McCain and I have had good conversations about where I would lead with his agenda. That is energy independence in America and reform of government over all, and then working with families of children with special needs. That's near and dear to my heart also. In those arenas, John McCain has already tapped me and said, that's where I want you, I want you to lead. I said, I can't wait to get and there go to work with you. 


 Well, our founding fathers were very wise there in allowing through the Constitution much flexibility there in the office of the vice president. And we will do what is best for the American people in tapping into that position and ushering in an agenda that is supportive and cooperative with the president's agenda in that position. Yeah, so I do agree with him that we have a lot of flexibility in there, and we'll do what we have to do to administer very appropriately the plans that are needed for this nation. And it is my executive experience that is partly to be attributed to my pick as V.P. with McCain, not only as a governor, but earlier on as a mayor, as an oil and gas regulator, as a business owner. It is those years of experience on an executive level that will be put to good use in the White House also. 


 My experience as an executive will be put to good use as a mayor and business owner and oil and gas regulator and then as governor of a huge state, a huge energy producing state that is accounting for much progress towards getting our nation energy independence and that's extremely important. 

But it wasn't just that experience tapped into, it was my connection to the
heartland of America. Being a mom, one very concerned about a son in the war,
about a special needs child, about kids heading off to college, how are we
going to pay those tuition bills? About times and Todd and our marriage in our
past where we didn't have health insurance and we know what other Americans
are going through as they sit around the kitchen table and try to figure out
how are they going to pay out-of-pocket for health care? We've been there also
so that connection was important.

But even more important is that world view that I share with John McCain. That
world view that says that America is a nation of exceptionalism. And we are to
be that shining city on a hill, as President Reagan so beautifully said, that
we are a beacon of hope and that we are unapologetic here. We are not perfect
as a nation. But together, we represent a perfect ideal. And that is democracy
and tolerance and freedom and equal rights. Those things that we stand for
that can be put to good use as a force for good in this world.

John McCain and I share that. You combine all that with being a team with the
only track record of making a really, a difference in where we've been and
reforming, that's a good team, it's a good ticket.


 People aren't looking for more of the same. They are looking for change. And John McCain has been the consummate maverick in the Senate over all these years. 

He's taken shots left and right from the other party and from within his own
party, because he's had to take on his own party when the time was right, when
he recognized it was time to put partisanship aside and just do what was right
for the American people. That's what I've done as governor, also, take on my
own party, when I had to, and work with both sides of the aisle, in my
cabinet, appointing those who would serve regardless of party, Democrats,
independents, Republicans, whatever it took to get the job done.

Also, John McCain's maverick position that he's in, that's really prompt up to
and indicated by the supporters that he has. Look at Lieberman, and Giuliani,
and Romney, and Lingle, and all of us who come from such a diverse background
of -- of policy and of partisanship, all coming together at this time,
recognizing he is the man that we need to leave -- lead in these next four
years, because these are tumultuous times.

We have got to win the wars. We have got to get our economy back on track. We
have got to not allow the greed and corruption on Wall Street anymore.

And we have not got to allow the partisanship that has really been entrenched
in Washington, D.C., no matter who's been in charge. When the Republicans were
in charge, I didn't see a lot of progress there, either. When the Democrats,
either, though, this last go- around for the last two years.

Change is coming. And John McCain is the leader of that reform.


 There have been times where, as mayor and governor, we have passed budgets that I did not veto and that I think could be considered as something that I quasi-caved in, if you will, but knowing that it was the right thing to do in order to progress the agenda for that year and to work with the legislative body, that body that actually holds the purse strings. 

So there were times when I wanted to zero-base budget, and to cut taxes even
more, and I didn't have enough support in order to accomplish that.

But on the major principle things, no, there hasn't been something that I've
had to compromise on, because we've always seemed to find a way to work
together. Up there in Alaska, what we have done is, with bipartisan efforts,
is work together and, again, not caring who gets the credit for what, as we
accomplish things up there.

And that's been just a part of the operation that I wanted to participate in.
And that's what we're going to do in Washington, D.C., also, bring in both
sides together. John McCain is known for doing that, also, in order to get the
work done for the American people.


 You do what I did as governor, and you appoint people regardless of party affiliation, Democrats, independents, Republicans. You -- you walk the walk; you don't just talk the talk. 

And even in my own family, it's a very diverse family. And we have folks of
all political persuasion in there, also, so I've grown up just knowing that,
you know, at the end of the day, as long as we're all working together for the
greater good, it's going to be OK.

But the policies and the proposals have got to speak for themselves, also.
And, again, voters on November 4th are going to have that choice to either
support a ticket that supports policies that create jobs.

You do that by lowering taxes on American workers and on our businesses. And
you build up infrastructure, and you rein in government spending, and you make
our -- our nation energy independent.

Or you support a ticket that supports policies that will kill jobs by
increasing taxes. And that's what the track record shows, is a desire to
increase taxes, increase spending, a trillion-dollar spending proposal that's
on the table. That's going to hurt our country, and saying no to energy
independence. Clear choices on November 4th.


 Well, again, Gwen, I do want to thank you and the commission. This is such an honor for me. 

And I appreciate, too, Senator Biden, getting to meet you, finally, also, and
getting to debate with you. And I would like more opportunity for this.

I like being able to answer these tough questions without the filter, even, of
the mainstream media kind of telling viewers what they've just heard. I'd
rather be able to just speak to the American people like we just did.

And it's so important that the American people know of the choices that they
have on November 4th.

I want to assure you that John McCain and I, we're going to fight for America.
We're going to fight for the middle-class, average, everyday American family
like mine.

I've been there. I know what the hurts are. I know what the challenges are.
And, thank God, I know what the joys are, too, of living in America. We are so
blessed. And I've always been proud to be an American. And so has John McCain.

We have to fight for our freedoms, also, economic and our national security
freedoms.

It was Ronald Reagan who said that freedom is always just one generation away
from extinction. We don't pass it to our children in the bloodstream; we have
to fight for it and protect it, and then hand it to them so that they shall do
the same, or we're going to find ourselves spending our sunset years telling
our children and our children's children about a time in America, back in the
day, when men and women were free.

We will fight for it, and there is only one man in this race who has really
ever fought for you, and that's Senator John McCain.


