 Well, Alan, thank you very much for the question. I want to first, obviously, thank Belmont University, Tom, thank you, and to all of you who are participating tonight and those of you who sent e-mail questions in. 

I think everybody knows now we are in the worst financial crisis since the
Great Depression. And a lot of you I think are worried about your jobs, your
pensions, your retirement accounts, your ability to send your child or your
grandchild to college.

And I believe this is a final verdict on the failed economic policies of the
last eight years, strongly promoted by President Bush and supported by Senator
McCain, that essentially said that we should strip away regulations, consumer
protections, let the market run wild, and prosperity would rain down on all of
us.

It hasn't worked out that way. And so now we've got to take some decisive
action.


 Now, step one was a rescue package that was passed last week. We've got to make sure that works properly. And that means strong oversight, making sure that investors, taxpayers are getting their money back and treated as investors. 

It means that we are cracking down on CEOs and making sure that they're not
getting bonuses or golden parachutes as a consequence of this package. And, in
fact, we just found out that AIG, a company that got a bailout, just a week
after they got help went on a $400,000 junket.

And I'll tell you what, the Treasury should demand that money back and those
executives should be fired. But that's only step one. The middle-class need a
rescue package. And that means tax cuts for the middle-class.

It means help for homeowners so that they can stay in their homes. It means
that we are helping state and local governments set up road projects and
bridge projects that keep people in their jobs.

And then long-term we've got to fix our health care system, we've got to fix
our energy system that is putting such an enormous burden on families. You
need somebody working for you and you've got to have somebody in Washington
who is thinking about the middle class and not just those who can afford to
hire lobbyists.


 Well, Warren would be a pretty good choice -- Warren Buffett, and I'm pleased to have his support. But there are other folks out there. The key is making sure that the next treasury secretary understands that it's not enough just to help those at the top. 

Prosperity is not just going to trickle down. We've got to help the middle
class.


 And we've -- you know, Senator McCain and I have some fundamental disagreements on the economy, starting with Senator McCain's statement earlier that he thought the fundamentals of the economy were sound. 

Part of the problem here is that for many of you, wages and incomes have flat-
lined. For many of you, it is getting harder and harder to save, harder and
harder to retire.

And that's why, for example, on tax policy, what I want to do is provide a
middle class tax cut to 95 percent of working Americans, those who are working
two jobs, people who are not spending enough time with their kids, because
they are struggling to make ends meet.

Senator McCain is right that we've got to stabilize housing prices. But
underlying that is loss of jobs and loss of income. That's something that the
next treasury secretary is going to have to work on.


 Well, Oliver, first, let me tell you what's in the rescue package for you. Right now, the credit markets are frozen up and what that means, as a practical matter, is that small businesses and some large businesses just can't get loans. 

If they can't get a loan, that means that they can't make payroll. If they
can't make payroll, then they may end up having to shut their doors and lay
people off.

And if you imagine just one company trying to deal with that, now imagine a
million companies all across the country.

So it could end up having an adverse effect on everybody, and that's why we
had to take action. But we shouldn't have been there in the first place.

Now, I've got to correct a little bit of Senator McCain's history, not
surprisingly. Let's, first of all, understand that the biggest problem in this
whole process was the deregulation of the financial system. Senator McCain, as
recently as March, bragged about the fact that he is a deregulator. On the
other hand, two years ago, I said that we've got a sub-prime lending crisis
that has to be dealt with.

I wrote to Secretary Paulson, I wrote to Federal Reserve Chairman Bernanke,
and told them this is something we have to deal with, and nobody did anything
about it.

A year ago, I went to Wall Street and said we've got to reregulate, and
nothing happened.


 And Senator McCain during that period said that we should keep on deregulating because that's how the free enterprise system works. 

Now, with respect to Fannie Mae, what Senator McCain didn't mention is the
fact that this bill that he talked about wasn't his own bill. He jumped on it
a year after it had been introduced and it never got passed.

And I never promoted Fannie Mae. In fact, Senator McCain's campaign chairman's
firm was a lobbyist on behalf of Fannie Mae, not me.

So -- but, look, you're not interested in hearing politicians pointing
fingers. What you're interested in is trying to figure out, how is this going
to impact you?

This is not the end of the process; this is the beginning of the process. And
that's why it's going to be so important for us to work with homeowners to
make sure that they can stay in their homes.

The secretary already has the power to do that in the rescue package, but it
hasn't been exercised yet. And the next president has to make sure that the
next Treasury secretary is thinking about how to strengthen you as a home
buyer, you as a homeowner, and not simply think about bailing out banks on
Wall Street.


 No, I am confident about the American economy. But we are going to have to have some leadership from Washington that not only sets out much better regulations for the financial system. 

The problem is we still have a archaic, 20th-century regulatory system for
21st-century financial markets. We're going to have to coordinate with other
countries to make sure that whatever actions we take work.

But most importantly, we're going to have to help ordinary families be able to
stay in their homes, make sure that they can pay their bills, deal with
critical issues like health care and energy, and we're going to have to change
the culture in Washington so that lobbyists and special interests aren't
driving the process and your voices aren't being drowned out.


 Well, look, I understand your frustration and your cynicism, because while you've been carrying out your responsibilities -- most of the people here, you've got a family budget. If less money is coming in, you end up making cuts. Maybe you don't go out to dinner as much. Maybe you put off buying a new car. 

That's not what happens in Washington. And you're right. There is a lot of
blame to go around.

But I think it's important just to remember a little bit of history. When
George Bush came into office, we had surpluses. And now we have half-a
-trillion-dollar deficit annually.

When George Bush came into office, our debt -- national debt was around $5
trillion. It's now over $10 trillion. We've almost doubled it. And so while
it's true that nobody's completely innocent here, we have had over the last
eight years the biggest increases in deficit spending and national debt in our
history. And Senator McCain voted for four out of five of those George Bush
budgets.

So here's what I would do. I'm going to spend some money on the key issues
that we've got to work on.


 You know, you may have seen your health care premiums go up. We've got to reform health care to help you and your budget. 

We are going to have to deal with energy because we can't keep on borrowing
from the Chinese and sending money to Saudi Arabia. We are mortgaging our
children's future. We've got to have a different energy plan.

We've got to invest in college affordability. So we're going to have to make
some investments, but we've also got to make spending cuts. And what I've
proposed, you'll hear Senator McCain say, well, he's proposing a whole bunch
of new spending, but actually I'm cutting more than I'm spending so that it
will be a net spending cut.

The key is whether or not we've got priorities that are working for you as
opposed to those who have been dictating the policy in Washington lately, and
that's mostly lobbyists and special interests. We've got to put an end to
that.


 We're going to have to prioritize, just like a family has to prioritize. Now, I've listed the things that I think have to be at the top of the list. 

Energy we have to deal with today, because you're paying $3.80 here in
Nashville for gasoline, and it could go up. And it's a strain on your family
budget, but it's also bad for our national security, because countries like
Russia and Venezuela and, you know, in some cases, countries like Iran, are
benefiting from higher oil prices.

So we've got to deal with that right away. That's why I've called for an
investment of $15 billion a year over 10 years. Our goal should be, in 10
year's time, we are free of dependence on Middle Eastern oil.

And we can do it. Now, when JFK said we're going to the Moon in 10 years,
nobody was sure how to do it, but we understood that, if the American people
make a decision to do something, it gets done. So that would be priority
number one.

Health care is priority number two, because that broken health care system is
bad not only for families, but it's making our businesses less competitive.

And, number three, we've got to deal with education so that our young people
are competitive in a global economy.

But just one point I want to make, Tom. Senator McCain mentioned looking at
our records. We do need to look at our records.

Senator McCain likes to talk about earmarks a lot. And that's important. I
want to go line by line through every item in the federal budget and eliminate
programs that don't work and make sure that those that do work, work better
and cheaper.

But understand this: We also have to look at where some of our tax revenues
are going. So when Senator McCain proposes a $300 billion tax cut, a
continuation not only of the Bush tax cuts, but an additional $200 billion
that he's going to give to big corporations, including big oil companies, $4
billion worth, that's money out of the system.

And so we've got to prioritize both our spending side and our tax policies to
make sure that they're working for you. That's what I'm going to do as
president of the United States.


 You know, a lot of you remember the tragedy of 9/11 and where you were on that day and, you know, how all of the country was ready to come together and make enormous changes to make us not only safer, but to make us a better country and a more unified country. 

And President Bush did some smart things at the outset, but one of the
opportunities that was missed was, when he spoke to the American people, he
said, "Go out and shop."

That wasn't the kind of call to service that I think the American people were
looking for.

And so it's important to understand that the -- I think the American people
are hungry for the kind of leadership that is going to tackle these problems
not just in government, but outside of government.

And let's take the example of energy, which we already spoke about. There is
going to be the need for each and every one of us to start thinking about how
we use energy.

I believe in the need for increased oil production. We're going to have to
explore new ways to get more oil, and that includes offshore drilling. It
includes telling the oil companies, that currently have 68 million acres that
they're not using, that either you use them or you lose them.

We're going to have to develop clean coal technology and safe ways to store
nuclear energy.

But each and every one of us can start thinking about how can we save energy
in our homes, in our buildings. And one of the things I want to do is make
sure that we're providing incentives so that you can buy a fuel efficient car
that's made right here in the United States of America, not in Japan or South
Korea, making sure that you are able to weatherize your home or make your
business more fuel efficient.

And that's going to require effort from each and every one of us.

And the last point I just want to make. I think the young people of America
are especially interested in how they can serve, and that's one of the reasons
why I'm interested in doubling the Peace Corps, making sure that we are
creating a volunteer corps all across this country that can be involved in
their community, involved in military service, so that military families and
our troops are not the only ones bearing the burden of renewing America.

That's something that all of us have to be involved with and that requires
some leadership from Washington.


 Well, I think it starts with Washington. We've got to show that we've got good habits, because if we're running up trillion dollar debts that we're passing on to the next generation, then a lot of people are going to think, "Well, you know what? There's easy money out there." 

It means -- and I have to, again, repeat this. It means looking at the
spending side, but also at the revenue side. I mean, Senator McCain has been
talking tough about earmarks, and that's good, but earmarks account for about
$18 billion of our budget.

Now, when Senator McCain is proposing tax cuts that would give the average
Fortune 500 CEO an additional $700,000 in tax cuts, that's not sharing a
burden.

And so part of the problem, I think, for a lot of people who are listening
here tonight is they don't feel as if they are sharing the burden with other
folks.

I mean, you know, it's tough to ask a teacher who's making $30,000 or $35,000
a year to tighten her belt when people who are making much more than her are
living pretty high on the hog.

And that's why I think it's important for the president to set a tone that
says all of us are going to contribute, all of us are going to make
sacrifices, and it means that, yes, we may have to cut some spending, although
I disagree with Senator McCain about an across-the- board freeze.

That's an example of an unfair burden sharing. That's using a hatchet to cut
the federal budget.


 I want to use a scalpel so that people who need help are getting help and those of us, like myself and Senator McCain, who don't need help, aren't getting it. 

That's how we make sure that everybody is willing to make a few sacrifices.


 Tom, can I respond to this briefly? Because... 


 The tax issue, because I think it's very important. Go ahead. 


 Well, Tom, we're going to have to take on entitlements and I think we've got to do it quickly. We're going to have a lot of work to do, so I can't guarantee that we're going to do it in the next two years, but I'd like to do in the my first term as president. 

But I think it's important to understand, we're not going to solve Social
Security and Medicare unless we understand the rest of our tax policies. And
you know, Senator McCain, I think the "Straight Talk Express" lost a wheel on
that one.

So let's be clear about my tax plan and Senator McCain's, because we're not
going to be able to deal with entitlements unless we understand the revenues
coming in. I want to provide a tax cut for 95 percent of Americans, 95
percent.

If you make less than a quarter of a million dollars a year, you will not see
a single dime of your taxes go up. If you make $200,000 a year or less, your
taxes will go down.

Now, Senator McCain talks about small businesses. Only a few percent of small
businesses make more than $250,000 a year. So the vast majority of small
businesses would get a tax cut under my plan.

And we provide a 50 percent tax credit so that they can buy health insurance
for their workers, because there are an awful lot of small businesses that I
meet across America that want to do right by their workers but they just can't
afford it. Some small business owners, a lot of them, can't even afford health
insurance for themselves.

Now, in contrast, Senator McCain wants to give a $300 billion tax cut, $200
billion of it to the largest corporations and a hundred thousand of it -- a
hundred billion of it going to people like CEOs on Wall Street. He wants to
give average Fortune 500 CEO an additional $700,000 in tax cuts. That is not
fair. And it doesn't work.


 Now, if we get our tax policies right so that they're good for the middle class, if we reverse the policies of the last eight years that got us into this fix in the first place and that Senator McCain supported, then we are going to be in a position to deal with Social Security and deal with Medicare, because we will have a health care plan that actually works for you, reduces spending and costs over the long term, and Social Security that is stable and solvent for all Americans and not just some. 


 This is one of the biggest challenges of our times. 


 And it is absolutely critical that we understand this is not just a challenge, it's an opportunity, because if we create a new energy economy, we can create five million new jobs, easily, here in the United States. 

It can be an engine that drives us into the future the same way the computer
was the engine for economic growth over the last couple of decades.

And we can do it, but we're going to have to make an investment. The same way
the computer was originally invented by a bunch of government scientists who
were trying to figure out, for defense purposes, how to communicate, we've got
to understand that this is a national security issue, as well.

And that's why we've got to make some investments and I've called for
investments in solar, wind, geothermal. Contrary to what Senator McCain keeps
on saying, I favor nuclear power as one component of our overall energy mix.

But this is another example where I think it is important to look at the
record. Senator McCain and I actually agree on something. He said a while back
that the big problem with energy is that for 30 years, politicians in
Washington haven't done anything.

What Senator McCain doesn't mention is he's been there 26 of them. And during
that time, he voted 23 times against alternative fuels, 23 times.

So it's easy to talk about this stuff during a campaign, but it's important
for us to understand that it requires a sustained effort from the next
president.

One last point I want to make on energy. Senator McCain talks a lot about
drilling, and that's important, but we have three percent of the world's oil
reserves and we use 25 percent of the world's oil.

So what that means is that we can't simply drill our way out of the problem.
And we're not going to be able to deal with the climate crisis if our only
solution is to use more fossil fuels that create global warming.

We're going to have to come up with alternatives, and that means that the
United States government is working with the private sector to fund the kind
of innovation that we can then export to countries like China that also need
energy and are setting up one coal power plant a week.

We've got to make sure that we're giving them the energy that they need or
helping them to create the energy that they need.


 I'm just trying to keep up with John. 


 Well, you know, as I travel around the country, this is one of the single most frequently asked issues that I get, is the issue of health care. It is breaking family budgets. I can't tell you how many people I meet who don't have health insurance. 

If you've got health insurance, most of you have seen your premiums double
over the last eight years. And your co-payments and deductibles have gone up
30 percent just in the last year alone. If you're a small business, it's a
crushing burden.

So one of the things that I have said from the start of this campaign is that
we have a moral commitment as well as an economic imperative to do something
about the health care crisis that so many families are facing.

So here's what I would do. If you've got health care already, and probably the
majority of you do, then you can keep your plan if you are satisfied with it.
You can keep your choice of doctor. We're going to work with your employer to
lower the cost of your premiums by up to $2,500 a year.

And we're going to do it by investing in prevention. We're going to do it by
making sure that we use information technology so that medical records are
actually on computers instead of you filling forms out in triplicate when you
go to the hospital. That will reduce medical errors and reduce costs.

If you don't have health insurance, you're going to be able to buy the same
kind of insurance that Senator McCain and I enjoy as federal employees.
Because there's a huge pool, we can drop the costs. And nobody will be
excluded for pre-existing conditions, which is a huge problem.

Now, Senator McCain has a different kind of approach. He says that he's going
to give you a $5,000 tax credit. What he doesn't tell you is that he is going
to tax your employer-based health care benefits for the first time ever.

So what one hand giveth, the other hand taketh away. He would also strip away
the ability of states to provide some of the regulations on insurance
companies to make sure you're not excluded for pre-existing conditions or your
mammograms are covered or your maternity is covered. And that is fundamentally
the wrong way to go.

In fact, just today business organizations like the United States Chamber of
Commerce, which generally are pretty supportive of Republicans, said that this
would lead to the unraveling of the employer-based health care system.

That, I don't think, is the kind of change that we need. We've got to have
somebody who is fighting for patients and making sure that you get decent,
affordable health care. And that's something that I'm committed to doing as
president.


 Well, why don't -- why don't -- let's talk about this, Tom, because there was just a lot of stuff out there. 


 Well, I think it should be a right for every American. In a country as wealthy as ours, for us to have people who are going bankrupt because they can't pay their medical bills -- for my mother to die of cancer at the age of 53 and have to spend the last months of her life in the hospital room arguing with insurance companies because they're saying that this may be a pre-existing condition and they don't have to pay her treatment, there's something fundamentally wrong about that. 

So let me -- let me just talk about this fundamental difference. And, Tom, I
know that we're under time constraints, but Senator McCain through a lot of
stuff out there.

Number one, let me just repeat, if you've got a health care plan that you
like, you can keep it. All I'm going to do is help you to lower the premiums
on it. You'll still have choice of doctor. There's no mandate involved.

Small businesses are not going to have a mandate. What we're going to give you
is a 50 percent tax credit to help provide health care for those that you
need.

Now, it's true that I say that you are going to have to make sure that your
child has health care, because children are relatively cheap to insure and we
don't want them going to the emergency room for treatable illnesses like
asthma.

And when Senator McCain says that he wants to provide children health care,
what he doesn't mention is he voted against the expansion of the Children's
Health Insurance Program that is responsible for making sure that so many
children who didn't have previously health insurance have it now.

Now, the final point I'll make on this whole issue of government intrusion and
mandates -- it is absolutely true that I think it is important for government
to crack down on insurance companies that are cheating their customers, that
don't give you the fine print, so you end up thinking that you're paying for
something and, when you finally get sick and you need it, you're not getting
it.

And the reason that it's a problem to go shopping state by state, you know
what insurance companies will do? They will find a state -- maybe Arizona,
maybe another state -- where there are no requirements for you to get cancer
screenings, where there are no requirements for you to have to get pre-
existing conditions, and they will all set up shop there.

That's how in banking it works. Everybody goes to Delaware, because they've
got very -- pretty loose laws when it comes to things like credit cards.

And in that situation, what happens is, is that the protections you have, the
consumer protections that you need, you're not going to have available to you.

That is a fundamental difference that I have with Senator McCain. He believes
in deregulation in every circumstance. That's what we've been going through
for the last eight years. It hasn't worked, and we need fundamental change.


 Well, you know, Senator McCain, in the last debate and today, again, suggested that I don't understand. It's true. There are some things I don't understand. 

I don't understand how we ended up invading a country that had nothing to do
with 9/11, while Osama Bin Laden and Al Qaeda are setting up base camps and
safe havens to train terrorists to attack us.

That was Senator McCain's judgment and it was the wrong judgment.

When Senator McCain was cheerleading the president to go into Iraq, he
suggested it was going to be quick and easy, we'd be greeted as liberators.

That was the wrong judgment, and it's been costly to us. So one of the
difficulties with Iraq is that it has put an enormous strain, first of all, on
our troops, obviously, and they have performed heroically and honorably and we
owe them an extraordinary debt of gratitude.

But it's also put an enormous strain on our budget. We've spent, so far, close
to $700 billion and if we continue on the path that we're on, as Senator
McCain is suggesting, it's going to go well over $1 trillion.

We're spending $10 billion a month in Iraq at a time when the Iraqis have a
$79 billion surplus, $79 billion.

And we need that $10 billion a month here in the United States to put people
back to work, to do all these wonderful things that Senator McCain suggested
we should be doing, but has not yet explained how he would pay for.

Now, Senator McCain and I do agree, this is the greatest nation on earth. We
are a force of good in the world. But there has never been a nation in the
history of the world that saw its economy decline and maintained its military
superiority.

And the strains that have been placed on our alliances around the world and
the respect that's been diminished over the last eight years has constrained
us being able to act on something like the genocide in Darfur, because we
don't have the resources or the allies to do everything that we should be
doing.

That's going to change when I'm president, but we can't change it unless we
fundamentally change Senator McCain's and George Bush's foreign policy. It has
not worked for America.


 Well, we may not always have national security issues at stake, but we have moral issues at stake. 

If we could have intervened effectively in the Holocaust, who among us would
say that we had a moral obligation not to go in?

If we could've stopped Rwanda, surely, if we had the ability, that would be
something that we would have to strongly consider and act.

So when genocide is happening, when ethnic cleansing is happening somewhere
around the world and we stand idly by, that diminishes us.


 And so I do believe that we have to consider it as part of our interests, our national interests, in intervening where possible. 

But understand that there's a lot of cruelty around the world. We're not going
to be able to be everywhere all the time. That's why it's so important for us
to be able to work in concert with our allies.

Let's take the example of Darfur just for a moment. Right now there's a
peacekeeping force that has been set up and we have African Union troops in
Darfur to stop a genocide that has killed hundreds of thousands of people.

We could be providing logistical support, setting up a no-fly zone at
relatively little cost to us, but we can only do it if we can help mobilize
the international community and lead. And that's what I intend to do when I'm
president.


 Katie, it's a terrific question and we have a difficult situation in Pakistan. I believe that part of the reason we have a difficult situation is because we made a bad judgment going into Iraq in the first place when we hadn't finished the job of hunting down bin Laden and crushing al Qaeda. 

So what happened was we got distracted, we diverted resources, and ultimately
bin Laden escaped, set up base camps in the mountains of Pakistan in the
northwest provinces there.

They are now raiding our troops in Afghanistan, destabilizing the situation.
They're stronger now than at any time since 2001. And that's why I think it's
so important for us to reverse course, because that's the central front on
terrorism.

They are plotting to kill Americans right now. As Secretary Gates, the defense
secretary, said, the war against terrorism began in that region and that's
where it will end. So part of the reason I think it's so important for us to
end the war in Iraq is to be able to get more troops into Afghanistan, put
more pressure on the Afghan government to do what it needs to do, eliminate
some of the drug trafficking that's funding terrorism.

But I do believe that we have to change our policies with Pakistan. We can't
coddle, as we did, a dictator, give him billions of dollars and then he's
making peace treaties with the Taliban and militants.


 What I've said is we're going to encourage democracy in Pakistan, expand our nonmilitary aid to Pakistan so that they have more of a stake in working with us, but insisting that they go after these militants. 

And if we have Osama bin Laden in our sights and the Pakistani government is
unable or unwilling to take them out, then I think that we have to act and we
will take them out. We will kill bin Laden; we will crush Al Qaida. That has
to be our biggest national security priority.


 Tom, just a... 


 ... just a quick follow-up on this. I think... 


 Then let's have one. 


 Just -- just -- just a quick follow-up, because I think -- I think this is important. 


 You're doing a great job, Tom. 

Look, I -- I want to be very clear about what I said. Nobody called for the
invasion of Pakistan. Senator McCain continues to repeat this.

What I said was the same thing that the audience here today heard me say,
which is, if Pakistan is unable or unwilling to hunt down bin Laden and take
him out, then we should.

Now, that I think has to be our policy, because they are threatening to kill
more Americans.

Now, Senator McCain suggests that somehow, you know, I'm green behind the ears
and, you know, I'm just spouting off, and he's somber and responsible.


 Senator McCain, this is the guy who sang, "Bomb, bomb, bomb Iran," who called for the annihilation of North Korea. That I don't think is an example of "speaking softly." 

This is the person who, after we had -- we hadn't even finished Afghanistan,
where he said, "Next up, Baghdad."

So I agree that we have to speak responsibly and we have to act responsibly.
And the reason Pakistan -- the popular opinion of America had diminished in
Pakistan was because we were supporting a dictator, Musharraf, had given him
$10 billion over seven years, and he had suspended civil liberties. We were
not promoting democracy.

This is the kind of policies that ultimately end up undermining our ability to
fight the war on terrorism, and it will change when I'm president.


 I'll be very brief. We are going to have to make the Iraqi government start taking more responsibility, withdraw our troops in a responsible way over time, because we're going to have to put some additional troops in Afghanistan. 

General McKiernan, the commander in Afghanistan right now, is desperate for
more help, because our bases and outposts are now targets for more aggressive
Afghan -- Taliban offenses. We're also going to have to work with the Karzai
government, and when I met with President Karzai, I was very clear that, "You
are going to have to do better by your people in order for us to gain the
popular support that's necessary."

I don't think he has to be a dictator. And we want a democracy in Afghanistan.
But we have to have a government that is responsive to the Afghan people, and,
frankly, it's just not responsive right now.


 Well, the resurgence of Russia is one of the central issues that we're going to have to deal with in the next presidency. And for the most part I agree with Senator McCain on many of the steps that have to be taken. 

But we can't just provide moral support. We've got to provide moral support to
the Poles and Estonia and Latvia and all of the nations that were former
Soviet satellites. But we've also got to provide them with financial and
concrete assistance to help rebuild their economies. Georgia in particular is
now on the brink of enormous economic challenges. And some say that that's
what Putin intended in the first place.

The other thing we have to do, though, is we've got to see around the corners.
We've got to anticipate some of these problems ahead of time. You know, back
in April, I put out a statement saying that the situation in Georgia was
unsustainable because you had Russian peacekeepers in these territories that
were under dispute.

And you knew that if the Russians themselves were trying to obtain some of
these territories or push back against Georgia, that that was not a stable
situation. So part of the job of the next commander-in-chief, in keeping all
of you safe, is making sure that we can see some of the 21st Century
challenges and anticipate them before they happen.

We haven't been doing enough of that. We tend to be reactive. That's what
we've been doing over the last eight years and that has actually made us more
safe. That's part of what happened in Afghanistan, where we rushed into Iraq
and Senator McCain and President Bush suggested that it wasn't that important
to catch bin Laden right now and that we could muddle through, and that has
cost us dearly.

We've got to be much more strategic if we're going to be able to deal with all
of the challenges that we face out there.

And one last point I want to make about Russia. Energy is going to be key in
dealing with Russia. If we can reduce our energy consumption, that reduces the
amount of petro dollars that they have to make mischief around the world. That
will strengthen us and weaken them when it comes to issues like Georgia.


 I think they've engaged in an evil behavior and I think that it is important that we understand they're not the old Soviet Union but they still have nationalist impulses that I think are very dangerous. 


 Well, Terry, first of all, we honor your service, and we're grateful for it. 

We cannot allow Iran to get a nuclear weapon. It would be a game-changer in
the region. Not only would it threaten Israel, our strongest ally in the
region and one of our strongest allies in the world, but it would also create
a possibility of nuclear weapons falling into the hands of terrorists.

And so it's unacceptable. And I will do everything that's required to prevent
it.

And we will never take military options off the table. And it is important
that we don't provide veto power to the United Nations or anyone else in
acting in our interests.

It is important, though, for us to use all the tools at our disposal to
prevent the scenario where we've got to make those kinds of choices.

And that's why I have consistently said that, if we can work more effectively
with other countries diplomatically to tighten sanctions on Iran, if we can
reduce our energy consumption through alternative energy, so that Iran has
less money, if we can impose the kinds of sanctions that, say, for example,
Iran right now imports gasoline, even though it's an oil-producer, because its
oil infrastructure has broken down, if we can prevent them from importing the
gasoline that they need and the refined petroleum products, that starts
changing their cost-benefit analysis. That starts putting the squeeze on them.

Now, it is true, though, that I believe that we should have direct talks --
not just with our friends, but also with our enemies -- to deliver a tough,
direct message to Iran that, if you don't change your behavior, then there
will be dire consequences.

If you do change your behavior, then it is possible for you to re-join the
community of nations.

Now, it may not work. But one of the things we've learned is, is that when we
take that approach, whether it's in North Korea or in Iran, then we have a
better chance at better outcomes.

When President Bush decided we're not going to talk to Iran, we're not going
to talk to North Korea, you know what happened? Iran went from zero
centrifuges to develop nuclear weapons to 4,000. North Korea quadrupled its
nuclear capability.

We've got to try to have talks, understanding that we're not taking military
options off the table.


 My wife, Michelle, is there and she could give you a much longer list than I do. And most of the time, I learn it by asking her. 

But, look, the nature of the challenges that we're going to face are immense
and one of the things that we know about the presidency is that it's never the
challenges that you expect. It's the challenges that you don't that end up
consuming most of your time.

But here's what I do know. I know that I wouldn't be standing here if it
weren't for the fact that this country gave me opportunity. I came from very
modest means. I had a single mom and my grandparents raised me and it was
because of the help of scholarships and my grandmother scrimping on things
that she might have wanted to purchase and my mom, at one point, getting food
stamps in order for us to put food on the table.

Despite all that, I was able to go to the best schools on earth and I was able
to succeed in a way that I could not have succeeded anywhere else in this
country.

The same is true for Michelle and I'm sure the same is true for a lot of you.

And the question in this election is: are we going to pass on that same
American dream to the next generation? Over the last eight years, we've seen
that dream diminish.

Wages and incomes have gone down. People have lost their health care or are
going bankrupt because they get sick. We've got young people who have got the
grades and the will and the drive to go to college, but they just don't have
the money.

And we can't expect that if we do the same things that we've been doing over
the last eight years, that somehow we are going to have a different outcome.

We need fundamental change. That's what's at stake in this election. That's
the reason I decided to run for president, and I'm hopeful that all of you are
prepared to continue this extraordinary journey that we call America.

But we're going to have to have the courage and the sacrifice, the nerve to
move in a new direction.

Thank you. BROKAW: Senator McCain, you get the last word. Senator Obama had
the opening. You're last up.


 Well, first of all, I want to thank Hofstra University and the people of New York for hosting us tonight and it's wonderful to join Sen. McCain again, and thank you, Bob.

I think everybody understands at this point that we are experiencing the worst
financial crisis since the Great Depression. And the financial rescue plan
that Sen. McCain and I supported is an important first step. And I pushed for
some core principles: making sure that taxpayer can get their money back if
they're putting money up. Making sure that CEOs are not enriching themselves
through this process.

And I think that it's going to take some time to work itself out. But what we
haven't yet seen is a rescue package for the middle class. Because the
fundamentals of the economy were weak even before this latest crisis. So I've
proposed four specific things that I think can help.

Number one, let's focus on jobs. I want to end the tax breaks for companies
that are shipping jobs overseas and provide a tax credit for every company
that's creating a job right here in America.

Number two, let's help families right away by providing them a tax cut -- a
middle-class tax cut for people making less than $200,000, and let's allow
them to access their IRA accounts without penalty if they're experiencing a
crisis.

Now Sen. McCain and I agree with your idea that we've got to help homeowners.
That's why we included in the financial package a proposal to get homeowners
in a position where they can renegotiate their mortgages.

I disagree with Sen. McCain in how to do it, because the way Sen. McCain has
designed his plan, it could be a giveaway to banks if we're buying full price
for mortgages that now are worth a lot less. And we don't want to waste
taxpayer money. And we've got to get the financial package working much
quicker than it has been working.

Last point I want to make, though. We've got some long-term challenges in this
economy that have to be dealt with. We've got to fix our energy policy that's
giving our wealth away. We've got to fix our health care system and we've got
to invest in our education system for every young person to be able to learn.


 He has been watching ads of Sen. McCain's. Let me tell you what I'm actually going to do. I think tax policy is a major difference between Sen. McCain and myself. And we both want to cut taxes, the difference is who we want to cut taxes for.

Now, Sen. McCain, the centerpiece of his economic proposal is to provide $200
billion in additional tax breaks to some of the wealthiest corporations in
America. Exxon Mobil, and other oil companies, for example, would get an
additional $4 billion in tax breaks.

What I've said is I want to provide a tax cut for 95 percent of working
Americans, 95 percent. If you make more -- if you make less than a quarter
million dollars a year, then you will not see your income tax go up, your
capital gains tax go up, your payroll tax. Not one dime.

And 95 percent of working families, 95 percent of you out there, will get a
tax cut. In fact, independent studies have looked at our respective plans and
have concluded that I provide three times the amount of tax relief to middle-
class families than Sen. McCain does.

Now, the conversation I had with Joe the plumber, what I essentially said to
him was, "Five years ago, when you were in a position to buy your business,
you needed a tax cut then."

And what I want to do is to make sure that the plumber, the nurse, the
firefighter, the teacher, the young entrepreneur who doesn't yet have money, I
want to give them a tax break now. And that requires us to make some important
choices.

The last point I'll make about small businesses. Not only do 98 percent of
small businesses make less than $250,000, but I also want to give them
additional tax breaks, because they are the drivers of the economy. They
produce the most jobs.


 OK. Can I...


 If I can answer the question. Number one, I want to cut taxes for 95 percent of Americans. Now, it is true that my friend and supporter, Warren Buffett, for example, could afford to pay a little more in taxes in order...


 ... in order to give -- in order to give additional tax cuts to Joe the plumber before he was at the point where he could make $250,000.

Then Exxon Mobil, which made $12 billion, record profits, over the last
several quarters, they can afford to pay a little more so that ordinary
families who are hurting out there -- they're trying to figure out how they're
going to afford food, how they're going to save for their kids' college
education, they need a break.

So, look, nobody likes taxes. I would prefer that none of us had to pay taxes,
including myself. But ultimately, we've got to pay for the core investments
that make this economy strong and somebody's got to do it.


 Well, I don't mind paying a little more.


 Well, first of all, I think it's important for the American public to understand that the $750 billion rescue package, if it's structured properly, and, as president, I will make sure it's structured properly, means that ultimately taxpayers get their money back, and that's important to understand.

But there is no doubt that we've been living beyond our means and we're going
to have to make some adjustments.

Now, what I've done throughout this campaign is to propose a net spending cut.
I haven't made a promise about...


 Absolutely. So let me get to that. What I want to emphasize, though, is that I have been a strong proponent of pay-as- you-go. Every dollar that I've proposed, I've proposed an additional cut so that it matches.

And some of the cuts, just to give you an example, we spend $15 billion a year
on subsidies to insurance companies. It doesn't -- under the Medicare plan --
it doesn't help seniors get any better. It's not improving our health care
system. It's just a giveaway.

We need to eliminate a whole host of programs that don't work. And I want to
go through the federal budget line by line, page by page, programs that don't
work, we should cut. Programs that we need, we should make them work better.

Now, what is true is that Sen. McCain and I have a difference in terms of the
need to invest in America and the American people. I mentioned health care
earlier.

If we make investments now so that people have coverage, that we are
preventing diseases, that will save on Medicare and Medicaid in the future.

If we invest in a serious energy policy, that will save in the amount of money
we're borrowing from China to send to Saudi Arabia.

If we invest now in our young people and their ability to go to college, that
will allow them to drive this economy into the 21st century.

But what is absolutely true is that, once we get through this economic crisis
and some of the specific proposals to get us out of this slump, that we're not
going to be able to go back to our profligate ways.

And we're going to have to embrace a culture and an ethic of responsibility,
all of us, corporations, the federal government, and individuals out there who
may be living beyond their means.


 Well, look, I think that we do have a disagreement about an across-the-board spending freeze. It sounds good. It's proposed periodically. It doesn't happen.

And, in fact, an across-the-board spending freeze is a hatchet, and we do need
a scalpel, because there are some programs that don't work at all. There are
some programs that are underfunded. And I want to make sure that we are
focused on those programs that work.

Now, Sen. McCain talks a lot about earmarks. That's one of the centerpieces of
his campaign.

Earmarks account for 0.5 percent of the total federal budget. There's no doubt
that the system needs reform and there are a lot of screwy things that we end
up spending money on, and they need to be eliminated. But it's not going to
solve the problem.

Now, the last thing I think we have to focus on is a little bit of history,
just so that we understand what we're doing going forward.

When President Bush came into office, we had a budget surplus and the national
debt was a little over $5 trillion. It has doubled over the last eight years.


 And we are now looking at a deficit of well over half a trillion dollars.

So one of the things that I think we have to recognize is pursuing the same
kinds of policies that we pursued over the last eight years is not going to
bring down the deficit. And, frankly, Sen. McCain voted for four out of five
of President Bush's budgets.

We've got to take this in a new direction, that's what I propose as president.


 Well, there's a lot of stuff that was put out there, so let me try to address it. First of all, in terms of standing up to the leaders of my party, the first major bill that I voted on in the Senate was in support of tort reform, which wasn't very popular with trial lawyers, a major constituency in the Democratic Party. I support...


 I support charter schools and pay for performance for teachers. Doesn't make me popular with the teachers union. I support clean coal technology. Doesn't make me popular with environmentalists. So I've got a history of reaching across the aisle.

Now with respect to a couple of things Sen. McCain said, the notion that I
voted for a tax increase for people making $42,000 a year has been disputed by
everybody who has looked at this claim that Sen. McCain keeps on making.

Even FOX News disputes it, and that doesn't happen very often when it comes to
accusations about me. So the fact of the matter is that if I occasionally have
mistaken your policies for George Bush's policies, it's because on the core
economic issues that matter to the American people, on tax policy, on energy
policy, on spending priorities, you have been a vigorous supporter of
President Bush.

Now, you've shown independence -- commendable independence, on some key issues
like torture, for example, and I give you enormous credit for that. But when
it comes to economic policies, essentially what you're proposing is eight more
years of the same thing. And it hasn't worked.

And I think the American people understand it hasn't worked. We need to move
in a new direction.


 Well, look, you know, I think that we expect presidential campaigns to be tough. I think that, if you look at the record and the impressions of the American people -- Bob, your network just did a poll, showing that two-thirds of the American people think that Sen. McCain is running a negative campaign versus one-third of mine.

And 100 percent, John, of your ads -- 100 percent of them have been negative.


 It absolutely is true. And, now, I think the American people are less interested in our hurt feelings during the course of the campaign than addressing the issues that matter to them so deeply.

And there is nothing wrong with us having a vigorous debate like we're having
tonight about health care, about energy policy, about tax policy. That's the
stuff that campaigns should be made of.

The notion, though, that because we're not doing town hall meetings that
justifies some of the ads that have been going up, not just from your own
campaign directly, John, but 527s and other organizations that make some
pretty tough accusations, well, I don't mind being attacked for the next three
weeks.

What the American people can't afford, though, is four more years of failed
economic policies. And what they deserve over the next four weeks is that we
talk about what's most pressing to them: the economic crisis.

Sen. McCain's own campaign said publicly last week that, if we keep on talking
about the economic crisis, we lose, so we need to change the subject.

And I would love to see the next three weeks devoted to talking about the
economy, devoted to talking about health care, devoted to talking about
energy, and figuring out how the American people can send their kids to
college.

And that is something that I would welcome. But it requires, I think, a
recognition that politics as usual, as been practiced over the last several
years, is not solving the big problems here in America.


 Congratulations.


 I mean, look, if we want to talk about Congressman Lewis, who is an American hero, he, unprompted by my campaign, without my campaign's awareness, made a statement that he was troubled with what he was hearing at some of the rallies that your running mate was holding, in which all the Republican reports indicated were shouting, when my name came up, things like "terrorist" and "kill him," and that you're running mate didn't mention, didn't stop, didn't say "Hold on a second, that's kind of out of line."

And I think Congressman Lewis' point was that we have to be careful about how
we deal with our supporters.

Now...


 Let -- let -- let...


 Let me -- let me complete...


 ... my response. I do think that he inappropriately drew a comparison between what was happening there and what had happened during the civil rights movement, and we immediately put out a statement saying that we don't think that comparison is appropriate.

And, in fact, afterwards, Congressman Lewis put out a similar statement,
saying that he had probably gone over the line.

The important point here is, though, the American people have become so
cynical about our politics, because all they see is a tit- for-tat and back-
and-forth. And what they want is the ability to just focus on some really big
challenges that we face right now, and that's what I have been trying to focus
on this entire campaign.


 We can have serious differences about our health care policy, for example, John, because we do have a difference on health care policy, but we...


 ... talking about it this evening.


 But when people suggest that I pal around with terrorists, then we're not talking about issues. What we're talking about...


 John, I...


 Well, look, Bob, as I said...


 You know, here's what I would say. I mean, we can have a debate back and forth about the merits of each other's campaigns. I suspect we won't agree here tonight.

What I think is most important is that we recognize that to solve the key
problems that we're facing, if we're going to solve two wars, the worst
financial crisis since the Great Depression, if we can -- if we're going to
focus on lifting wages that have declined over the last eight years and create
jobs here in America, then Democrats, independents and Republicans, we're
going to have to be able to work together.

And what is important is making sure that we disagree without being
disagreeable. And it means that we can have tough, vigorous debates around
issues. What we can't do, I think, is try to characterize each other as bad
people. And that has been a culture in Washington that has been taking place
for too long. And I think...


 Bob, I think it's going to be important to just -- I'll respond to these two particular allegations that Sen. McCain has made and that have gotten a lot of attention.

In fact, Mr. Ayers has become the centerpiece of Sen. McCain's campaign over
the last two or three weeks. This has been their primary focus. So let's get
the record straight. Bill Ayers is a professor of education in Chicago.

Forty years ago, when I was 8 years old, he engaged in despicable acts with a
radical domestic group. I have roundly condemned those acts. Ten years ago he
served and I served on a school reform board that was funded by one of Ronald
Reagan's former ambassadors and close friends, Mr. Annenberg.

Other members on that board were the presidents of the University of Illinois,
the president of Northwestern University, who happens to be a Republican, the
president of The Chicago Tribune, a Republican- leaning newspaper.

Mr. Ayers is not involved in my campaign. He has never been involved in this
campaign. And he will not advise me in the White House. So that's Mr. Ayers.

Now, with respect to ACORN, ACORN is a community organization. Apparently what
they've done is they were paying people to go out and register folks, and
apparently some of the people who were out there didn't really register
people, they just filled out a bunch of names.

It had nothing to do with us. We were not involved. The only involvement I've
had with ACORN was I represented them alongside the U.S. Justice Department in
making Illinois implement a motor voter law that helped people get registered
at DMVs.

Now, the reason I think that it's important to just get these facts out is
because the allegation that Sen. McCain has continually made is that somehow
my associations are troubling.

Let me tell you who I associate with. On economic policy, I associate with
Warren Buffett and former Fed Chairman Paul Volcker. If I'm interested in
figuring out my foreign policy, I associate myself with my running mate, Joe
Biden or with Dick Lugar, the Republican ranking member on the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee, or General Jim Jones, the former supreme allied commander
of NATO.

Those are the people, Democrats and Republicans, who have shaped my ideas and
who will be surrounding me in the White House. And I think the fact that this
has become such an important part of your campaign, Sen. McCain, says more
about your campaign than it says about me.


 That's absolutely not true.


 And that's not the facts.


 Well, Joe Biden, I think, is one of the finest public servants that has served in this country. It's not just that he has some of the best foreign policy credentials of anybody. And Democrats and Republicans alike, I think, acknowledge his expertise there.

But it's also that his entire life he has never forgotten where he came from,
coming from Scranton, fighting on behalf of working families, remembering what
it's like to see his father lose his job and go through a downward spiral
economically.

And, as a consequence, his consistent pattern throughout his career is to
fight for the little guy. That's what he's done when it comes to economic
policies that will help working families get a leg up.

That's what he's done when it comes to, for example, passing the landmark 1994
crime bill, the Violence Against Women's Act. Joe has always made sure that he
is fighting on behalf of working families, and I think he shares my core
values and my sense of where the country needs to go.

Because after eight years of failed policies, he and I both agree that what
we're going to have to do is to re-prioritize, make sure that we're investing
in the American people, give tax cuts not to the wealthiest corporations, but
give them to small businesses and give them to individuals who are struggling
right now, make sure that we finally get serious about energy independence,
something that has been languishing in Washington for 30 years, and make sure
that our kids get a great education and can afford to go to college.

So, on the key issues that are of importance to American families, Joe Biden's
always been on the right side, and I think he will make an outstanding
president if, heaven forbid, something happened to me.


 You know, I think it's -- that's going to be up to the American people. I think that, obviously, she's a capable politician who has, I think, excited the -- a base in the Republican Party.

And I think it's very commendable the work she's done on behalf of special
needs. I agree with that, John.

I do want to just point out that autism, for example, or other special needs
will require some additional funding, if we're going to get serious in terms
of research. That is something that every family that advocates on behalf of
disabled children talk about.

And if we have an across-the-board spending freeze, we're not going to be able
to do it. That's an example of, I think, the kind of use of the scalpel that
we want to make sure that we're funding some of those programs.


 I think that in ten years, we can reduce our dependence so that we no longer have to import oil from the Middle East or Venezuela. I think that's about a realistic timeframe.

And this is the most important issue that our future economy is going to face.
Obviously, we've got an immediate crisis right now. But nothing is more
important than us no longer borrowing $700 billion or more from China and
sending it to Saudi Arabia. It's mortgaging our children's future.

Now, from the start of this campaign, I've identified this as one of my top
priorities and here is what I think we have to do.

Number one, we do need to expand domestic production and that means, for
example, telling the oil companies the 68 million acres that they currently
have leased that they're not drilling, use them or lose them.

And I think that we should look at offshore drilling and implement it in a way
that allows us to get some additional oil. But understand, we only have three
to four percent of the world's oil reserves and we use 25 percent of the
world's oil, which means that we can't drill our way out of the problem.

That's why I've focused on putting resources into solar, wind, biodiesel,
geothermal. These have been priorities of mine since I got to the Senate, and
it is absolutely critical that we develop a high fuel efficient car that's
built not in Japan and not in South Korea, but built here in the United States
of America.

We invented the auto industry and the fact that we have fallen so far behind
is something that we have to work on.

Now I just want to make one last point because Sen. McCain mentioned NAFTA and
the issue of trade and that actually bears on this issue. I believe in free
trade. But I also believe that for far too long, certainly during the course
of the Bush administration with the support of Sen. McCain, the attitude has
been that any trade agreement is a good trade agreement. And NAFTA doesn't
have -- did not have enforceable labor agreements and environmental
agreements.

And what I said was we should include those and make them enforceable. In the
same way that we should enforce rules against China manipulating its currency
to make our exports more expensive and their exports to us cheaper.

And when it comes to South Korea, we've got a trade agreement up right now,
they are sending hundreds of thousands of South Korean cars into the United
States. That's all good. We can only get 4,000 to 5,000 into South Korea. That
is not free trade. We've got to have a president who is going to be advocating
on behalf of American businesses and American workers and I make no apology
for that.


 Let me respond. Actually, I understand it pretty well. The history in Colombia right now is that labor leaders have been targeted for assassination on a fairly consistent basis and there have not been prosecutions.

And what I have said, because the free trade -- the trade agreement itself
does have labor and environmental protections, but we have to stand for human
rights and we have to make sure that violence isn't being perpetrated against
workers who are just trying to organize for their rights, which is why, for
example, I supported the Peruvian Free Trade Agreement which was a well-
structured agreement.

But I think that the important point is we've got to have a president who
understands the benefits of free trade but also is going to enforce unfair
trade agreements and is going to stand up to other countries.

And the last point I'll make, because we started on energy. When I talked
about the automakers, they are obviously getting hammered right now. They were
already having a tough time because of high gas prices. And now with the
financial crisis, car dealerships are closing and people can't get car loans.

That's why I think it's important for us to get loan guarantees to the
automakers, but we do have to hold them responsible as well to start producing
the highly fuel-efficient cars of the future.

And Detroit had dragged its feet too long in terms of getting that done. It's
going to be one of my highest priorities because transportation accounts for
about 30 percent of our total energy consumption.

If we can get that right, then we can move in a direction not only of energy
independence, but we can create 5 million new jobs all across America,
including in the heartland where we can retool some of these plants to make
these highly fuel-efficient cars and also to make wind turbines and solar
panels, the kinds of clean energy approaches that should be the driver of our
economy for the next century.


 We've got to do both, and that's exactly what my plan does.

Look, as I travel around the country, this is the issue that will break your
heart over and over again. Just yesterday, I was in Toledo shaking some hands
in a line. Two women, both of them probably in their mid- to late-50s, had
just been laid off of their plant. Neither of them have health insurance.

And they were desperate for some way of getting coverage, because,
understandably, they're worried that, if they get sick, they could go
bankrupt.

So here's what my plan does. If you have health insurance, then you don't have
to do anything. If you've got health insurance through your employer, you can
keep your health insurance, keep your choice of doctor, keep your plan.

The only thing we're going to try to do is lower costs so that those cost
savings are passed onto you. And we estimate we can cut the average family's
premium by about $2,500 per year.

If you don't have health insurance, then what we're going to do is to provide
you the option of buying into the same kind of federal pool that both Sen.
McCain and I enjoy as federal employees, which will give you high-quality
care, choice of doctors, at lower costs, because so many people are part of
this insured group.

We're going to make sure that insurance companies can't discriminate on the
basis of pre-existing conditions. We'll negotiate with the drug companies for
the cheapest available price on drugs.

We are going to invest in information technology to eliminate bureaucracy and
make the system more efficient.

And we are going to make sure that we manage chronic illnesses, like diabetes
and heart disease, that cost a huge amount, but could be prevented. We've got
to put more money into preventive care.

This will cost some money on the front end, but over the long term this is the
only way that not only are we going to make families healthy, but it's also
how we're going to save the federal budget, because we can't afford these
escalating costs.


 It is not and I didn't describe it...


 I just...


 I just described what my plan is. And I'm happy to talk to you, Joe, too, if you're out there. Here's your fine -- zero. You won't pay a fine, because...


 Zero, because as I said in our last debate and I'll repeat, John, I exempt small businesses from the requirement for large businesses that can afford to provide health care to their employees, but are not doing it.

I exempt small businesses from having to pay into a kitty. But large
businesses that can afford it, we've got a choice. Either they provide health
insurance to their employees or somebody has to.

Right now, what happens is those employees get dumped into either the Medicaid
system, which taxpayers pick up, or they're going to the emergency room for
uncompensated care, which everybody picks up in their premiums.

The average family is paying an additional $900 a year in higher premiums
because of the uninsured.

So here's what we do. We exempt small businesses. In fact, what, Joe, if you
want to do the right thing with your employees and you want to provide them
health insurance, we'll give you a 50 percent credit so that you will actually
be able to afford it.

If you don't have health insurance or you want to buy into a group plan, you
will be able to buy into the plan that I just described.

Now, what we haven't talked about is Sen. McCain's plan. He says he's going to
give you all a $5,000 tax credit. That sounds pretty good. And you can go out
and buy your own insurance.

Here's the problem -- that for about 20 million people, you may find
yourselves no longer having employer-based health insurance. This is because
younger people might be able to get health insurance for $5,000, young and
healthy folks.

Older folks, let's healthy folks, what's going to end up happening is that
you're going to be the only ones left in your employer-based system, your
employers won't be able to afford it.

And once you're out on your own with this $5,000 credit, Sen. McCain, for the
first time, is going to be taxing the health care benefits that you have from
your employer.

And this is your plan, John. For the first time in history, you will be taxing
people's health care benefits.

By the way, the average policy costs about $12,000. So if you've got $5,000
and it's going to cost you $12,000, that's a loss for you.

Last point about Sen. McCain's plan is that insurers right now, the main
restrictions on what they do is primarily state law and, under Sen. McCain's
plan, those rules would be stripped away and you would start seeing a lot more
insurance companies cherry-picking and excluding people from coverage.

That, I think, is a mistake and I think that this is a fundamental difference
in our campaign and how we would approach health care.


 Very briefly. You all just heard my plan. If you've got an employer-based health care plan, you keep it. Now, under Sen. McCain's plan there is a strong risk that people would lose their employer-based health care.

That's the choice you'll have is having your employer no longer provide you
health care. And don't take my word for it. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce,
which generally doesn't support a lot of Democrats, said that this plan could
lead to the unraveling of the employer-based health care system.

All I want to do, if you've already got health care, is lower your costs. That
includes you, Joe.


 Well, I think it's true that we shouldn't apply a strict litmus test and the most important thing in any judge is their capacity to provide fairness and justice to the American people.

And it is true that this is going to be, I think, one of the most
consequential decisions of the next president. It is very likely that one of
us will be making at least one and probably more than one appointments and Roe
versus Wade probably hangs in the balance.

Now I would not provide a litmus test. But I am somebody who believes that Roe
versus Wade was rightly decided. I think that abortion is a very difficult
issue and it is a moral issue and one that I think good people on both sides
can disagree on.

But what ultimately I believe is that women in consultation with their
families, their doctors, their religious advisers, are in the best position to
make this decision. And I think that the Constitution has a right to privacy
in it that shouldn't be subject to state referendum, any more than our First
Amendment rights are subject to state referendum, any more than many of the
other rights that we have should be subject to popular vote.

So this is going to be an important issue. I will look for those judges who
have an outstanding judicial record, who have the intellect, and who hopefully
have a sense of what real-world folks are going through.

I'll just give you one quick example. Sen. McCain and I disagreed recently
when the Supreme Court made it more difficult for a woman named Lilly
Ledbetter to press her claim for pay discrimination.

For years, she had been getting paid less than a man had been paid for doing
the exact same job. And when she brought a suit, saying equal pay for equal
work, the judges said, well, you know, it's taken you too long to bring this
lawsuit, even though she didn't know about it until fairly recently.

We tried to overturn it in the Senate. I supported that effort to provide
better guidance to the courts; John McCain opposed it.

I think that it's important for judges to understand that if a woman is out
there trying to raise a family, trying to support her family, and is being
treated unfairly, then the court has to stand up, if nobody else will. And
that's the kind of judge that I want.


 Yes, let me respond to this. If it sounds incredible that I would vote to withhold lifesaving treatment from an infant, that's because it's not true. The -- here are the facts.

There was a bill that was put forward before the Illinois Senate that said you
have to provide lifesaving treatment and that would have helped to undermine
Roe v. Wade. The fact is that there was already a law on the books in Illinois
that required providing lifesaving treatment, which is why not only myself but
pro-choice Republicans and Democrats voted against it.

And the Illinois Medical Society, the organization of doctors in Illinois,
voted against it. Their Hippocratic Oath would have required them to provide
care, and there was already a law in the books.

With respect to partial-birth abortion, I am completely supportive of a ban on
late-term abortions, partial-birth or otherwise, as long as there's an
exception for the mother's health and life, and this did not contain that
exception.

And I attempted, as many have in the past, of including that so that it is
constitutional. And that was rejected, and that's why I voted present, because
I'm willing to support a ban on late-term abortions as long as we have that
exception.

The last point I want to make on the issue of abortion. This is an issue that
-- look, it divides us. And in some ways, it may be difficult to -- to
reconcile the two views.

But there surely is some common ground when both those who believe in choice
and those who are opposed to abortion can come together and say, "We should
try to prevent unintended pregnancies by providing appropriate education to
our youth, communicating that sexuality is sacred and that they should not be
engaged in cavalier activity, and providing options for adoption, and helping
single mothers if they want to choose to keep the baby."

Those are all things that we put in the Democratic platform for the first time
this year, and I think that's where we can find some common ground, because
nobody's pro-abortion. I think it's always a tragic situation.

We should try to reduce these circumstances.


 This probably has more to do with our economic future than anything and that means it also has a national security implication, because there's never been a nation on earth that saw its economy decline and continued to maintain its primacy as a military power.

So we've got to get our education system right. Now, typically, what's
happened is that there's been a debate between more money or reform, and I
think we need both.

In some cases, we are going to have to invest. Early childhood education,
which closes the achievement gap, so that every child is prepared for school,
every dollar we invest in that, we end up getting huge benefits with improved
reading scores, reduced dropout rates, reduced delinquency rates.

I think it's going to be critically important for us to recruit a generation
of new teachers, an army of new teachers, especially in math and science, give
them higher pay, give them more professional development and support in
exchange for higher standards and accountability.

And I think it's important for us to make college affordable. Right now, I
meet young people all across the country who either have decided not to go to
college or if they're going to college, they are taking on $20,000, $30,000,
$50,000, $60,000 worth of debt, and it's very difficult for them to go into
some fields, like basic research in science, for example, thinking to
themselves that they're going to have a mortgage before they even buy a house.

And that's why I've proposed a $4,000 tuition credit, every student, every
year, in exchange for some form of community service, whether it's military
service, whether it's Peace Corps, whether it's working in a community.

If we do those things, then I believe that we can create a better school
system.

But there's one last ingredient that I just want to mention, and that's
parents. We can't do it just in the schools. Parents are going to have to show
more responsibility. They've got to turn off the TV set, put away the video
games, and, finally, start instilling that thirst for knowledge that our
students need.


 Well, we have a tradition of local control of the schools and that's a tradition that has served us well. But I do think that it is important for the federal government to step up and help local school districts do some of the things they need to do.

Now we tried to do this under President Bush. He put forward No Child Left
Behind. Unfortunately, they left the money behind for No Child Left Behind.
And local school districts end up having more of a burden, a bunch of unfunded
mandates, the same kind of thing that happened with special education where we
did the right thing by saying every school should provide education to kids
with special needs, but we never followed through on the promise of funding,
and that left local school districts very cash-strapped.

So what I want to do is focus on early childhood education, providing teachers
higher salaries in exchange for more support. Sen. McCain and I actually agree
on two things that he just mentioned.

Charter schools, I doubled the number of charter schools in Illinois despite
some reservations from teachers unions. I think it's important to foster
competition inside the public schools.

And we also agree on the need for making sure that if we have bad teachers
that they are swiftly -- after given an opportunity to prove themselves, if
they can't hack it, then we need to move on because our kids have to have
their best future.

Where we disagree is on the idea that we can somehow give out vouchers -- give
vouchers as a way of securing the problems in our education system. And I also
have to disagree on Sen. McCain's record when it comes to college
accessibility and affordability.

Recently his key economic adviser was asked about why he didn't seem to have
some specific programs to help young people go to college and the response
was, well, you know, we can't give money to every interest group that comes
along.

I don't think America's youth are interest groups, I think they're our future.
And this is an example of where we are going to have to prioritize. We can't
say we're going to do things and then not explain in concrete terms how we're
going to pay for it.

And if we're going to do some of the things you mentioned, like lowering loan
rates or what have you, somebody has got to pay for it. It's not going to
happen on its own.


 I'll just make a quick comment about vouchers in D.C. Sen. McCain's absolutely right: The D.C. school system is in terrible shape, and it has been for a very long time. And we've got a wonderful new superintendent there who's working very hard with the young mayor there to try...


 ... who initiated -- actually, supports charters.


 But the -- but here's the thing, is that, even if Sen. McCain were to say that vouchers were the way to go -- I disagree with him on this, because the data doesn't show that it actually solves the problem -- the centerpiece of Sen. McCain's education policy is to increase the voucher program in D.C. by 2,000 slots.

That leaves all of you who live in the other 50 states without an education
reform policy from Sen. McCain.

So if we are going to be serious about this issue, we've got to have a
president who is going to tackle it head-on. And that's what I intend to do as
president.


 Well, I want to thank Sen. McCain and Bob for moderating.

I think we all know America is going through tough times right now. The
policies of the last eight years and -- and Washington's unwillingness to
tackle the tough problems for decades has left us in the worst economic crisis
since the Great Depression.

And that's why the biggest risk we could take right now is to adopt the same
failed policies and the same failed politics that we've seen over the last
eight years and somehow expect a different result.

We need fundamental change in this country, and that's what I'd like to bring.

You know, over the last 20 months, you've invited me into your homes. You've
shared your stories with me. And you've confirmed once again the fundamental
decency and generosity of the American people.

And that's why I'm sure that our brighter days are still ahead.

But we're going to have to invest in the American people again, in tax cuts
for the middle class, in health care for all Americans, and college for every
young person who wants to go. In businesses that can create the new energy
economy of the future. In policies that will lift wages and will grow our
middle class.

These are the policies I have fought for my entire career. And these are the
policies I want to bring to the White House.

But it's not going to be easy. It's not going to be quick. It is going to be
requiring all of us -- Democrats, Republicans, independents -- to come
together and to renew a spirit of sacrifice and service and responsibility.

I'm absolutely convinced we can do it. I would ask for your vote, and I
promise you that if you give me the extraordinary honor of serving as your
president, I will work every single day, tirelessly, on your behalf and on the
behalf of the future of our children.

Thank you very much.


