 Well, thank you, Tom. Thank you, Belmont University. And Senator Obama, it's good to be with you at a town hall meeting. 

And, Alan, thank you for your question. You go to the heart of America's
worries tonight. Americans are angry, they're upset, and they're a little
fearful. It's our job to fix the problem.

Now, I have a plan to fix this problem and it has got to do with energy
independence. We've got to stop sending $700 billion a year to countries that
don't want us very -- like us very much. We have to keep Americans' taxes low.
All Americans' taxes low. Let's not raise taxes on anybody today.

We obviously have to stop this spending spree that's going on in Washington.
Do you know that we've laid a $10 trillion debt on these young Americans who
are here with us tonight, $500 billion of it we owe to China? We've got to
have a package of reforms and it has got to lead to reform prosperity and
peace in the world. And I think that this problem has become so severe, as you
know, that we're going to have to do something about home values.

You know that home values of retirees continues to decline and people are no
longer able to afford their mortgage payments. As president of the United
States, Alan, I would order the secretary of the treasury to immediately buy
up the bad home loan mortgages in America and renegotiate at the new value of
those homes -- at the diminished value of those homes and let people be able
to make those -- be able to make those payments and stay in their homes.

Is it expensive? Yes. But we all know, my friends, until we stabilize home
values in America, we're never going to start turning around and creating jobs
and fixing our economy. And we've got to give some trust and confidence back
to America.

I know how the do that, my friends. And it's my proposal, it's not Senator
Obama's proposal, it's not President Bush's proposal. But I know how to get
America working again, restore our economy and take care of working Americans.
Thank you.


 Not you, Tom. 

_(LAUGHTER)_


 You know, that's a tough question and there's a lot of qualified Americans. But I think the first criteria, Tom, would have to be somebody who immediately Americans identify with, immediately say, we can trust that individual. 

A supporter of Senator Obama's is Warren Buffett. He has already weighed in
and helped stabilize some of the difficulties in the markets and with
companies and corporations, institutions today.

I like Meg Whitman, she knows what it's like to be out there in the
marketplace. She knows how to create jobs. Meg Whitman was CEO of a company
that started with 12 people and is now 1.3 million people in America make
their living off eBay. Maybe somebody here has done a little business with
them.

But the point is it's going to have to be somebody who inspires trust and
confidence. Because the problem in America today to a large extent, Tom, is
that we don't have trust and confidence in our institutions because of the
corruption on Wall Street and the greed and excess and the cronyism in
Washington, D.C.


 Well, thank you, Oliver, and that's an excellent question, because as you just described it, bailout, when I believe that it's rescue, because -- because of the greed and excess in Washington and Wall Street, Main Street was paying a very heavy price, and we know that. 

I left my campaign and suspended it to go back to Washington to make sure that
there were additional protections for the taxpayer in the form of good
oversight, in the form of taxpayers being the first to be paid back when our
economy recovers -- and it will recover -- and a number of other measures.

But you know, one of the real catalysts, really the match that lit this fire
was Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. I'll bet you, you may never even have heard of
them before this crisis.

But you know, they're the ones that, with the encouragement of Senator Obama
and his cronies and his friends in Washington, that went out and made all
these risky loans, gave them to people that could never afford to pay back.

And you know, there were some of us that stood up two years ago and said we've
got to enact legislation to fix this. We've got to stop this greed and excess.

Meanwhile, the Democrats in the Senate and some -- and some members of
Congress defended what Fannie and Freddie were doing. They resisted any
change.

Meanwhile, they were getting all kinds of money in campaign contributions.
Senator Obama was the second highest recipient of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
money in history -- in history.

So this rescue package means that we will stabilize markets, we will shore up
these institutions. But it's not enough. That's why we're going to have to go
out into the housing market and we're going to have to buy up these bad loans
and we're going to have to stabilize home values, and that way, Americans,
like Alan, can realize the American dream and stay in their home.

But Fannie and Freddie were the catalysts, the match that started this forest
fire. There were some of us -- there were some of us that stood up against it.
There were others who took a hike.


 I think it depends on what we do. I think if we act effectively, if we stabilize the housing market -- which I believe we can, if we go out and buy up these bad loans, so that people can have a new mortgage at the new value of their home -- I think if we get rid of the cronyism and special interest influence in Washington so we can act more effectively. 

My friend, I'd like you to see the letter that a group of senators and I wrote
warning exactly of this crisis. Senator Obama's name was not on that letter.

The point is -- the point is that we can fix our economy. Americans' workers
are the best in the world. They're the fundamental aspect of America's
economy.

They're the most innovative. They're the best -- they're most -- have best --
we're the best exporters. We're the best importers. They're most effective.
They are the best workers in the world.

And we've got to give them a chance. They've got -- we've got to give them a
chance to do their best again. And they are the innocent bystanders here in
what is the biggest financial crisis and challenge of our time. We can do it.


 Well, Theresa, thank you. And I can see why you feel that cynicism and mistrust, because the system in Washington is broken. And I have been a consistent reformer. 

I have advocated and taken on the special interests, whether they be the big
money people by reaching across the aisle and working with Senator Feingold on
campaign finance reform, whether it being a variety of other issues, working
with Senator Lieberman on trying to address climate change.

I have a clear record of bipartisanship. The situation today cries out for
bipartisanship. Senator Obama has never taken on his leaders of his party on a
single issue. And we need to reform.

And so let's look at our records as well as our rhetoric. That's really part
of your mistrust here. And now I suggest that maybe you go to some of these
organizations that are the watchdogs of what we do, like the Citizens Against
Government Waste or the National Taxpayers Union or these other organizations
that watch us all the time.

I don't expect you to watch every vote. And you know what you'll find? This is
the most liberal big-spending record in the United States Senate. I have
fought against excessive spending and outrages. I have fought to reduce the
earmarks and eliminate them. Do you know that Senator Obama has voted for --
is proposing $860 billion of new spending now? New spending. Do you know that
he voted for every increase in spending that I saw come across the floor of
the United States Senate while we were working to eliminate these pork barrel
earmarks?

He voted for nearly a billion dollars in pork barrel earmark projects,
including, by the way, $3 million for an overhead projector at a planetarium
in Chicago, Illinois. My friends, do we need to spend that kind of money?

I think you have to look at my record and you have to look at his. Then you
have to look at our proposals for our economy, not $860 billion in new
spending, but for the kinds of reforms that keep people in their jobs, get
middle-income Americans working again, and getting our economy moving again.

You're going to be examining our proposals tonight and in the future, and
energy independence is a way to do that, is one of them. And drilling offshore
and nuclear power are two vital elements of that. And I've been supporting
those and I know how to fix this economy, and eliminate our dependence on
foreign oil, and stop sending $700 billion a year overseas.


 The three priorities were health... 


 I think you can work on all three at once, Tom. I think it's very important that reform our entitlement programs. 

My friends, we are not going to be able to provide the same benefit for
present-day workers that we are going -- that present-day retirees have today.
We're going to have to sit down across the table, Republican and Democrat, as
we did in 1983 between Ronald Reagan and Tip O'Neill.

I know how to do that. I have a clear record of reaching across the aisle,
whether it be Joe Lieberman or Russ Feingold or Ted Kennedy or others. That's
my clear record.

We can work on nuclear power plants. Build a whole bunch of them, create
millions of new jobs. We have to have all of the above, alternative fuels,
wind, tide, solar, natural gas, clean coal technology. All of these things we
can do as Americans and we can take on this mission and we can overcome it.


 My friends, some of this $700 billion ends up in the hands of terrorist organizations. 

As far as health care is concerned, obviously, everyone is struggling to make
sure that they can afford their premiums and that they can have affordable and
available health care. That's the next issue.

But we can do them all at once. There's no -- and we have to do them all at
once. All three you mentioned are compelling national security requirements.


 Well, Fiora, I'm going to ask the American people to understand that there are some programs that we may have to eliminate. 

I first proposed a long time ago that we would have to examine every agency
and every bureaucracy of government. And we're going to have to eliminate
those that aren't working.

I know a lot of them that aren't working. One of them is in defense spending,
because I've taken on some of the defense contractors. I saved the taxpayers
$6.8 billion in a deal for an Air Force tanker that was done in a corrupt
fashion.

I believe that we have to eliminate the earmarks. And sometimes those
projects, not -- not the overhead projector that Senator Obama asked for, but
some of them that are really good projects, will have -- will have to be
eliminated, as well.

And they'll have to undergo the same scrutiny that all projects should in
competition with others.

So we're going to have to tell the American people that spending is going to
have to be cut in America. And I recommend a spending freeze that -- except
for defense, Veterans Affairs, and some other vital programs, we'll just have
to have across-the-board freeze.

And some of those programs may not grow as much as we would like for them to,
but we can establish priorities with full transparency, with full knowledge of
the American people, and full consultation, not done behind closed doors and
shoving earmarks in the middle of the night into programs that we don't even
-- sometimes we don't even know about until months later.

And, by the way, I want to go back a second.


 Look, we can attack health care and energy at the same time. We're not -- we're not -- we're not rifle shots here. We are Americans. We can, with the participation of all Americans, work together and solve these problems together. 

Frankly, I'm not going to tell that person without health insurance that, "I'm
sorry, you'll have to wait." I'm going to tell you Americans we'll get to work
right away and we'll get to work together, and we can get them all done,
because that's what America has been doing.


 Well, you know, nailing down Senator Obama's various tax proposals is like nailing Jell-O to the wall. There has been five or six of them and if you wait long enough, there will probably be another one. 

But he wants to raise taxes. My friends, the last president to raise taxes
during tough economic times was Herbert Hoover, and he practiced protectionism
as well, which I'm sure we'll get to at some point.

You know, last year up to this time, we've lost 700,000 jobs in America. The
only bright spot is that over 300,000 jobs have been created by small
businesses. Senator Obama's secret that you don't know is that his tax
increases will increase taxes on 50 percent of small business revenue.

Small businesses across America will have to cut jobs and will have their
taxes increase and won't be able to hire because of Senator Obama's tax
policies. You know, he said some time ago, he said he would forgo his tax
increases if the economy was bad.

I've got some news, Senator Obama, the news is bad. So let's not raise
anybody's taxes, my friends, and make it be very clear to you I am not in
favor of tax cuts for the wealthy. I am in favor of leaving the tax rates
alone and reducing the tax burden on middle-income Americans by doubling your
tax exemption for every child from $3,500 to $7,000.

To giving every American a $5,000 refundable tax credit and go out and get the
health insurance you want rather than mandates and fines for small businesses,
as Senator Obama's plan calls for. And let's create jobs and let's get our
economy going again. And let's not raise anybody's taxes.


 Sure. Hey, I'll answer the question. Look -- look, it's not that hard to fix Social Security, Tom. It's just... 


 ... tough decisions. I want to get to Medicare in a second. 

Social Security is not that tough. We know what the problems are, my friends,
and we know what the fixes are. We've got to sit down together across the
table. It's been done before.

I saw it done with our -- our wonderful Ronald Reagan, a conservative from
California, and the liberal Democrat Tip O'Neill from Massachusetts. That's
what we need more of, and that's what I've done in Washington.

Senator Obama has never taken on his party leaders on a single major issue.
I've taken them on. I'm not too popular sometimes with my own party, much less
his.

So Medicare, it's going to be a little tougher. It's going to be a little
tougher because we're talking about very complex and difficult issues.

My friends, what we have to do with Medicare is have a commission, have the
smartest people in America come together, come up with recommendations, and
then, like the base-closing commission idea we had, then we should have
Congress vote up or down.

Let's not let them fool with it anymore. There's too much special interests
and too many lobbyists working there. So let's have -- and let's have the
American people say, "Fix it for us." Now, just back on this -- on this tax,
you know, again, it's back to our first question here about rhetoric and
record. Senator Obama has voted 94 times to either increase your taxes or
against tax cuts. That's his record.

When he ran for the United States Senate from Illinois, he said he would have
a middle-income tax cut. You know he came to the Senate and never once
proposed legislation to do that?

So let's look at our record. I've fought higher taxes. I have fought excess
spending. I have fought to reform government.

Let's look at our records, my friends, and then listen to my vision for the
future of America. And we'll get our economy going again. And our best days
are ahead of us.


 Well, thank you. Look, we are in tough economic times; we all know that. And let's keep -- never forget the struggle that Americans are in today. 

But when we can -- when we have an issue that we may hand our children and our
grandchildren a damaged planet, I have disagreed strongly with the Bush
administration on this issue. I traveled all over the world looking at the
effects of greenhouse gas emissions, Joe Lieberman and I.

And I introduced the first legislation, and we forced votes on it. That's the
good news, my friends. The bad news is we lost. But we kept the debate going,
and we kept this issue to -- to posing to Americans the danger that climate
change opposes.

Now, how -- what's -- what's the best way of fixing it? Nuclear power. Senator
Obama says that it has to be safe or disposable or something like that.

Look, I -- I was on Navy ships that had nuclear power plants. Nuclear power is
safe, and it's clean, and it creates hundreds of thousands of jobs.

And -- and I know that we can reprocess the spent nuclear fuel. The Japanese,
the British, the French do it. And we can do it, too. Senator Obama has
opposed that. We can move forward, and clean up our climate, and develop green
technologies, and alternate -- alternative energies for -- for hybrid, for
hydrogen, for battery-powered cars, so that we can clean up our environment
and at the same time get our economy going by creating millions of jobs.

We can do that, we as Americans, because we're the best innovators, we're the
best producers, and 95 percent of the people who are our market live outside
of the United States of America.


 Tom, wave like that and I'll look at you. 


 Sure. 


 I think pure research and development investment on the part of the United States government is certainly appropriate. I think once it gets into productive stages, that we ought to, obviously, turn it over to the private sector. 

By the way, my friends, I know you grow a little weary with this back-and-
forth. It was an energy bill on the floor of the Senate loaded down with
goodies, billions for the oil companies, and it was sponsored by Bush and
Cheney.

You know who voted for it? You might never know. That one. You know who voted
against it? Me. I have fought time after time against these pork barrel --
these bills that come to the floor and they have all kinds of goodies and all
kinds of things in them for everybody and they buy off the votes.

I vote against them, my friends. I vote against them. But the point is, also,
on oil drilling, oil drilling offshore now is vital so that we can bridge the
gap. We can bridge the gap between imported oil, which is a national security
issue, as well as any other, and it will reduce the price of a barrel of oil,
because when people know there's a greater supply, then the cost of that will
go down.

That's fundamental economics. We've got to drill offshore, my friends, and
we've got to do it now, and we can do it.

And as far as nuclear power is concerned, again, look at the record. Senator
Obama has approved storage and reprocessing of spent nuclear fuel.

And I'll stop, Tom, and you didn't even wave. Thanks.


 Well, thank you for the question. You really identified one of the really major challenges that America faces. Co-payments go up, costs go up, skyrocketing costs, which make people less and less able to afford health insurance in America. 

And we need to do all of the things that are necessary to make it more
efficient. Let's put health records online, that will reduce medical errors,
as they call them. Let's have community health centers. Let's have walk-in
clinics. Let's do a lot of things to impose efficiencies.

But what is at stake here in this health care issue is the fundamental
difference between myself and Senator Obama. As you notice, he starts talking
about government. He starts saying, government will do this and government
will do that, and then government will, and he'll impose mandates.

If you're a small business person and you don't insure your employees, Senator
Obama will fine you. Will fine you. That's remarkable. If you're a parent and
you're struggling to get health insurance for your children, Senator Obama
will fine you.

I want to give every American a $5,000 refundable tax credit. They can take it
anywhere, across state lines. Why not? Don't we go across state lines when we
purchase other things in America? Of course it's OK to go across state lines
because in Arizona they may offer a better plan that suits you best than it
does here in Tennessee.

And if you do the math, those people who have employer-based health benefits,
if you put the tax on it and you have what's left over and you add $5,000 that
you're going to get as a refundable tax credit, do the math, 95 percent of the
American people will have increased funds to go out and buy the insurance of
their choice and to shop around and to get -- all of those people will be
covered except for those who have these gold-plated Cadillac kinds of
policies.

You know, like hair transplants, I might need one of those myself. But the
point is that we have got to give people choice in America and not mandate
things on them and give them the ability. Every parent I know would acquire
health insurance for their children if they could.

Obviously small business people want to give their employees health insurance.
Of course they all want to do that. We've got to give them the wherewithal to
do it. We can do it by giving them, as a start, a $5,000 refundable tax credit
to go around and get the health insurance policy of their choice.


 I think it's a responsibility, in this respect, in that we should have available and affordable health care to every American citizen, to every family member. And with the plan that -- that I have, that will do that. 

But government mandates I -- I'm always a little nervous about. But it is
certainly my responsibility. It is certainly small-business people and others,
and they understand that responsibility. American citizens understand that.
Employers understand that.

But they certainly are a little nervous when Senator Obama says, if you don't
get the health care policy that I think you should have, then you're going to
get fined. And, by the way, Senator Obama has never mentioned how much that
fine might be. Perhaps we might find that out tonight.


 I don't believe that -- did we hear the size of the fine? 


 Well, I thank you for that question, because there's no doubt that history shows us that nations that are strong militarily over time have to have a strong economy, as well. And that is one of the challenges that America faces. 

But having said that, America -- and we'll hear a lot of criticism. I've heard
a lot of criticism about America, and our national security policy, and all
that, and much of that criticism is justified.

But the fact is, America is the greatest force for good in the history of the
world. My friends, we have gone to all four corners of the Earth and shed
American blood in defense, usually, of somebody else's freedom and our own.


 So we are peacemakers and we're peacekeepers. But the challenge is to know when the United States of American can beneficially effect the outcome of a crisis, when to go in and when not, when American military power is worth the expenditure of our most precious treasure. 

And that question can only be answered by someone with the knowledge and
experience and the judgment, the judgment to know when our national security
is not only at risk, but where the United States of America can make a
difference in preventing genocide, in preventing the spread of terrorism, in
doing the things that the United States has done, not always well, but we've
done because we're a nation of good.

And I am convinced that my record, going back to my opposition from sending
the Marines to Lebanon, to supporting our efforts in Kosovo and Bosnia and the
first Gulf War, and my judgment, I think, is something that I'm -- a record
that I'm willing to stand on.

Senator Obama was wrong about Iraq and the surge. He was wrong about Russia
when they committed aggression against Georgia. And in his short career, he
does not understand our national security challenges.

We don't have time for on-the-job training, my friends.


 Well, let me just follow up, my friends. If we had done what Senator Obama wanted done in Iraq, and that was set a date for withdrawal, which General Petraeus, our chief -- chairman of our Joint Chiefs of Staff said would be a very dangerous course to take for America, then we would have had a wider war, we would have been back, Iranian influence would have increased, al Qaeda would have re- established a base. 

There was a lot at stake there, my friends. And I can tell you right now that
Senator Obama would have brought our troops home in defeat. I'll bring them
home with victory and with honor and that is a fundamental difference.

The United States of America, Tom, is the greatest force for good, as I said.
And we must do whatever we can to prevent genocide, whatever we can to prevent
these terrible calamities that we have said never again.

But it also has to be tempered with our ability to beneficially affect the
situation. That requires a cool hand at the tiller. This requires a person who
understands what our -- the limits of our capability are.

We went in to Somalia as a peacemaking organization, we ended up trying to be
-- excuse me, as a peacekeeping organization, we ended up trying to be
peacemakers and we ended up having to withdraw in humiliation.

In Lebanon, I stood up to President Reagan, my hero, and said, if we send
Marines in there, how can we possibly beneficially affect this situation? And
said we shouldn't. Unfortunately, almost 300 brave young Marines were killed.

So you have to temper your decisions with the ability to beneficially affect
the situation and realize you're sending America's most precious asset,
American blood, into harm's way. And, again, I know those situations.

I've been in them all my life. And I can tell you right now the security of
your young men and women who are serving in the military are my first priority
right after our nation's security.

And I may have to make those tough decisions. But I won't take them lightly.
And I understand that we have to say never again to a Holocaust and never
again to Rwanda. But we had also better be darn sure we don't leave and make
the situation worse, thereby exacerbating our reputation and our ability to
address crises in other parts of the world.


 Well, Katie, thank you. 

You know, my hero is a guy named Teddy Roosevelt. Teddy Roosevelt used to say
walk softly -- talk softly, but carry a big stick. Senator Obama likes to talk
loudly.

In fact, he said he wants to announce that he's going to attack Pakistan.
Remarkable.

You know, if you are a country and you're trying to gain the support of
another country, then you want to do everything you can that they would act in
a cooperative fashion.

When you announce that you're going to launch an attack into another country,
it's pretty obvious that you have the effect that it had in Pakistan: It turns
public opinion against us.

Now, let me just go back with you very briefly. We drove the Russians out with
-- the Afghan freedom fighters drove the Russians out of Afghanistan, and then
we made a most serious mistake. We washed our hands of Afghanistan. The
Taliban came back in, Al Qaida, we then had the situation that required us to
conduct the Afghan war.

Now, our relations with Pakistan are critical, because the border areas are
being used as safe havens by the Taliban and Al Qaida and other extremist
organizations, and we have to get their support.

Now, General Petraeus had a strategy, the same strategy -- very, very
different, because of the conditions and the situation -- but the same
fundamental strategy that succeeded in Iraq. And that is to get the support of
the people.

We need to help the Pakistani government go into Waziristan, where I visited,
a very rough country, and -- and get the support of the people, and get them
to work with us and turn against the cruel Taliban and others.

And by working and coordinating our efforts together, not threatening to
attack them, but working with them, and where necessary use force, but talk
softly, but carry a big stick.


 If we're going to have follow-ups, then I will want follow-ups, as well. 


 It'd be fine with me. It'd be fine with me. 


 It'd be fine with me. 


 Thank you very much. 


 And, Tom, if -- if we're going to go back and forth, I then -- I'd like to have equal time to go -- to respond to... 


 ... to -- to -- to... 


 Not true. Not true. I have, obviously, supported those efforts that the United States had to go in militarily and I have opposed that I didn't think so. 

I understand what it's like to send young American's in harm's way. I say -- I
was joking with a veteran -- I hate to even go into this. I was joking with an
old veteran friend, who joked with me, about Iran.

But the point is that I know how to handle these crises. And Senator Obama, by
saying that he would attack Pakistan, look at the context of his words. I'll
get Osama bin Laden, my friends. I'll get him. I know how to get him.

I'll get him no matter what and I know how to do it. But I'm not going to
telegraph my punches, which is what Senator Obama did. And I'm going to act
responsibly, as I have acted responsibly throughout my military career and
throughout my career in the United States Senate.

And we have fundamental disagreements about the use of military power and how
you do it, and you just saw it in response to previous questions.


 General Petraeus has just taken over a position of responsibility, where he has the command and will really set the tone for the strategy and tactics that are used. 

And I've had conversations with him. It is the same overall strategy. Of
course, we have to do some things tactically, some of which Senator Obama is
correct on.

We have to double the size of the Afghan army. We have to have a streamlined
NATO command structure. We have to do a lot of things. We have to work much
more closely with the Pakistanis.

But most importantly, we have to have the same strategy, which Senator Obama
said wouldn't work, couldn't work, still fails to admit that he was wrong
about Iraq.

He still will not admit that he was wrong about the strategy of the surge in
Iraq, and that's the same kind of strategy of go out and secure and hold and
allow people to live normal lives.

And once they feel secure, then they lead normal, social, economic, political
lives, the same thing that's happening in Iraq today.

So I have confidence that General Petraeus, working with the Pakistanis,
working with the Afghans, doing the same job that he did in Iraq, will again.
We will succeed and we will bring our troops home with honor and victory and
not in defeat.


 First of all, as I say, I don't think that -- we're not going to have another Cold War with Russia. 

But have no doubt that Russia's behavior is certainly outside the norms of
behavior that we would expect for nations which are very wealthy, as Russia
has become, because of their petro dollars.

Now, long ago, I warned about Vladimir Putin. I said I looked into his eyes
and saw three letters, a K, a G and a B. He has surrounded himself with former
KGB apparatchiks. He has gradually repressed most of the liberties that we
would expect for nations to observe, and he has exhibited most aggressive
behavior, obviously, in Georgia.

I said before, watch Ukraine. Ukraine, right now, is in the sights of Vladimir
Putin, those that want to reassemble the old Soviet Union.

We've got to show moral support for Georgia.


 We've got to show moral support for Ukraine. We've got to advocate for their membership in NATO. 

We have to make the Russians understand that there are penalties for these
this kind of behavior, this kind of naked aggression into Georgia, a tiny
country and a tiny democracy.

And so, of course we want to bring international pressures to bear on Russia
in hopes that that will modify and eventually change their behavior. Now, the
G-8 is one of those, but there are many others.

But the Russians must understand that these kinds of actions and activities
are not acceptable and hopefully we will use the leverage, economic,
diplomatic and others united with our allies, with our allies and friends in
Europe who are equally disturbed as we are about their recent behaviors.


 It will not be a re-ignition of the Cold War, but Russia is a challenge. 


 Maybe. 

_(LAUGHTER)_


 Depends on how we respond to Russia and it depends on a lot of things. If I say yes, then that means that we're reigniting the old Cold War. If I say no, it ignores their behavior. 

Obviously energy is going to be a big, big factor. And Georgia and Ukraine are
both major gateways of energy into Europe. And that's one of the reasons why
it's in our interest.

But the Russians, I think we can deal with them but they've got to understand
that they're facing a very firm and determined United States of America that
will defend our interests and that of other countries in the world.


 Well, thank you, Terry. And thank you for your service to the country. 

I want to say, everything I ever learned about leadership I learned from a
chief petty officer. And I thank you, and I thank you, my friend. Thanks for
serving.

Let -- let -- let me say that we obviously would not wait for the United
Nations Security Council. I think the realities are that both Russia and China
would probably pose significant obstacles.

And our challenge right now is the Iranians continue on the path to acquiring
nuclear weapons, and it's a great threat. It's not just a threat -- threat to
the state of Israel. It's a threat to the stability of the entire Middle East.

If Iran acquires nuclear weapons, all the other countries will acquire them,
too. The tensions will be ratcheted up.

What would you do if you were the Israelis and the president of a country says
that they are -- they are determined to wipe you off the map, calls your
country a stinking corpse?

Now, Senator Obama without precondition wants to sit down and negotiate with
them, without preconditions. That's what he stated, again, a matter of record.

I want to make sure that the Iranians are put enough -- that we put enough
pressure on the Iranians by joining with our allies, imposing significant,
tough sanctions to modify their behavior. And I think we can do that.

I think, joining with our allies and friends in a league of democracies, that
we can effectively abridge their behavior, and hopefully they would abandon
this quest that they are on for nuclear weapons.

But, at the end of the day, my friend, I have to tell you again, and you know
what it's like to serve, and you know what it's like to sacrifice, but we can
never allow a second Holocaust to take place.


 Well, thank you, Tom. And I think what I don't know is what all of us don't know, and that's what's going to happen both here at home and abroad. 

The challenges that we face are unprecedented. Americans are hurting tonight
in a way they have not in our generation.

There are challenges around the world that are new and different and there
will be different -- we will be talking about countries sometime in the future
that we hardly know where they are on the map, some Americans.

So what I don't know is what the unexpected will be. But I have spent my whole
life serving this country. I grew up in a family where my father was gone most
of the time because he was at sea and doing our country's business. My mother
basically raised our family.

I know what it's like in dark times. I know what it's like to have to fight to
keep one's hope going through difficult times. I know what it's like to rely
on others for support and courage and love in tough times.

I know what it's like to have your comrades reach out to you and your
neighbors and your fellow citizens and pick you up and put you back in the
fight.

That's what America's all about. I believe in this country. I believe in its
future. I believe in its greatness. It's been my great honor to serve it for
many, many years.

And I'm asking the American people to give me another opportunity and I'll
rest on my record, but I'll also tell you, when times are tough, we need a
steady hand at the tiller and the great honor of my life was to always put my
country first.

Thank you, Tom.


 Well, let -- let me say, Bob, thank you.

And thanks to Hofstra.

And, by the way, our beloved Nancy Reagan is in the hospital tonight, so our
thoughts and prayers are going with you.

It's good to see you again, Sen. Obama.

Americans are hurting right now, and they're angry. They're hurting, and
they're angry. They're innocent victims of greed and excess on Wall Street and
as well as Washington, D.C. And they're angry, and they have every reason to
be angry.

And they want this country to go in a new direction. And there are elements of
my proposal that you just outlined which I won't repeat.

But we also have to have a short-term fix, in my view, and long- term fixes.

Let me just talk to you about one of the short-term fixes.

The catalyst for this housing crisis was the Fannie and Freddie Mae that
caused subprime lending situation that now caused the housing market in
America to collapse.

I am convinced that, until we reverse this continued decline in home ownership
and put a floor under it, and so that people have not only the hope and belief
they can stay in their homes and realize the American dream, but that value
will come up.

Now, we have allocated $750 billion. Let's take 300 of that billion and go in
and buy those home loan mortgages and negotiate with those people in their
homes, 11 million homes or more, so that they can afford to pay the mortgage,
stay in their home.

Now, I know the criticism of this.

Well, what about the citizen that stayed in their homes? That paid their
mortgage payments? It doesn't help that person in their home if the next door
neighbor's house is abandoned. And so we've got to reverse this. We ought to
put the homeowners first. And I am disappointed that Secretary Paulson and
others have not made that their first priority.


 No. I would like to mention that a couple days ago Sen. Obama was out in Ohio and he had an encounter with a guy who's a plumber, his name is Joe Wurzelbacher.

Joe wants to buy the business that he has been in for all of these years,
worked 10, 12 hours a day. And he wanted to buy the business but he looked at
your tax plan and he saw that he was going to pay much higher taxes.

You were going to put him in a higher tax bracket which was going to increase
his taxes, which was going to cause him not to be able to employ people, which
Joe was trying to realize the American dream.

Now Sen. Obama talks about the very, very rich. Joe, I want to tell you, I'll
not only help you buy that business that you worked your whole life for and be
able -- and I'll keep your taxes low and I'll provide available and affordable
health care for you and your employees.

And I will not have -- I will not stand for a tax increase on small business
income. Fifty percent of small business income taxes are paid by small
businesses. That's 16 million jobs in America. And what you want to do to Joe
the plumber and millions more like him is have their taxes increased and not
be able to realize the American dream of owning their own business.


 That's what Joe believes.


 You know, when Sen. Obama ended up his conversation with Joe the plumber -- we need to spread the wealth around. In other words, we're going to take Joe's money, give it to Sen. Obama, and let him spread the wealth around.

I want Joe the plumber to spread that wealth around. You told him you wanted
to spread the wealth around.

The whole premise behind Sen. Obama's plans are class warfare, let's spread
the wealth around. I want small businesses -- and by the way, the small
businesses that we're talking about would receive an increase in their taxes
right now.

Who -- why would you want to increase anybody's taxes right now? Why would you
want to do that, anyone, anyone in America, when we have such a tough time,
when these small business people, like Joe the plumber, are going to create
jobs, unless you take that money from him and spread the wealth around.

I'm not going to...


 We're not going to do that in my administration.


 We're talking about Joe the plumber.


 Nobody likes taxes. Let's not raise anybody's taxes. OK?


 The fact is that businesses in America today are paying the second highest tax rate of anywhere in the world. Our tax rate for business in America is 35 percent. Ireland, it's 11 percent.

Where are companies going to go where they can create jobs and where they can
do best in business?

We need to cut the business tax rate in America. We need to encourage
business.

Now, of all times in America, we need to cut people's taxes. We need to
encourage business, create jobs, not spread the wealth around.


 Well, thank you, Bob. I just want to get back to this home ownership. During the Depression era, we had a thing called the home ownership loan corporation.

And they went out and bought up these mortgages. And people were able to stay
in their homes, and eventually the values of those homes went up, and they
actually made money.

And, by the way, this was a proposal made by Sen. Clinton not too long ago.

So, obviously, if we can start increasing home values, then there will be
creation of wealth.


 But -- OK. All right.


 Energy -- well, first -- second of all, energy independence. We have to have nuclear power. We have to stop sending $700 billion a year to countries that don't like us very much. It's wind, tide, solar, natural gas, nuclear, off-shore drilling, which Sen. Obama has opposed.

And the point is that we become energy independent and we will create millions
of jobs -- millions of jobs in America.

OK, what -- what would I cut? I would have, first of all, across-the-board
spending freeze, OK? Some people say that's a hatchet. That's a hatchet, and
then I would get out a scalpel, OK?

Because we've got -- we have presided over the largest increase -- we've got
to have a new direction for this country. We have presided over the largest
increase in government since the Great Society.

Government spending has gone completely out of control; $10 trillion dollar
debt we're giving to our kids, a half-a-trillion dollars we owe China.

I know how to save billions of dollars in defense spending. I know how to
eliminate programs.


 I have fought against -- well, one of them would be the marketing assistance program. Another one would be a number of subsidies for ethanol.

I oppose subsidies for ethanol because I thought it distorted the market and
created inflation; Sen. Obama supported those subsidies.

I would eliminate the tariff on imported sugarcane-based ethanol from Brazil.

I know how to save billions. I saved the taxpayer $6.8 billion by fighting a
deal for a couple of years, as you might recall, that was a sweetheart deal
between an aircraft manufacturer, DOD, and people ended up in jail.

But I would fight for a line-item veto, and I would certainly veto every
earmark pork-barrel bill. Sen. Obama has asked for nearly $1 billion in pork-
barrel earmark projects...


 ... including $3 million for an overhead projector in a planetarium in his hometown. That's not the way we cut -- we'll cut out all the pork.


 Sure I do. And let me tell you...


 Yes. Sen. Obama, I am not President Bush. If you wanted to run against President Bush, you should have run four years ago. I'm going to give a new direction to this economy in this country.

Sen. Obama talks about voting for budgets. He voted twice for a budget
resolution that increases the taxes on individuals making $42,000 a year. Of
course, we can take a hatchet and a scalpel to this budget. It's completely
out of control.

The mayor of New York, Mayor Bloomberg, just imposed an across- the-board
spending freeze on New York City. They're doing it all over America because
they have to. Because they have to balance their budgets. I will balance our
budgets and I will get them and I will...


 ... reduce this -- I can -- we can do it with this kind of job creation of energy independence.

Now, look, Americans are hurting tonight and they're angry and I understand
that, and they want a new direction. I can bring them in that direction by
eliminating spending.

Sen. Obama talks about the budgets I voted for. He voted for the last two
budgets that had that $24 billion more in spending than the budget that the
Bush administration proposed.

He voted for the energy bill that was full of goodies for the oil companies
that I opposed. So the fact is, let's look at our records, Sen. Obama. Let's
look at it as graded by the National Taxpayers Union and the Citizens Against
Government Waste and the other watchdog organizations.

I have fought against spending. I have fought against special interests. I
have fought for reform. You have to tell me one time when you have stood up
with the leaders of your party on one single major issue.


 An overwhelming vote.


 Let me just say, Bob.


 OK. But it's very clear that I have disagreed with the Bush administration. I have disagreed with leaders of my own party. I've got the scars to prove it.

Whether it be bringing climate change to the floor of the Senate for the first
time. Whether it be opposition to spending and earmarks, whether it be the
issue of torture, whether it be the conduct of the war in Iraq, which I
vigorously opposed. Whether it be on fighting the pharmaceutical companies on
Medicare prescription drugs, importation. Whether it be fighting for an HMO
patient's bill of rights. Whether it be the establishment of the 9/11
Commission.

I have a long record of reform and fighting through on the floor of the United
States Senate.


 Sen. Obama, your argument for standing up to the leadership of your party isn't very convincing.


 Well, this has been a tough campaign. It's been a very tough campaign. And I know from my experience in many campaigns that, if Sen. Obama had asked -- responded to my urgent request to sit down, and do town hall meetings, and come before the American people, we could have done at least 10 of them by now.

When Sen. Obama was first asked, he said, "Any place, any time," the way Barry
Goldwater and Jack Kennedy agreed to do, before the intervention of the
tragedy at Dallas. So I think the tone of this campaign could have been very
different.

And the fact is, it's gotten pretty tough. And I regret some of the negative
aspects of both campaigns. But the fact is that it has taken many turns which
I think are unacceptable.

One of them happened just the other day, when a man I admire and respect --
I've written about him -- Congressman John Lewis, an American hero, made
allegations that Sarah Palin and I were somehow associated with the worst
chapter in American history, segregation, deaths of children in church
bombings, George Wallace. That, to me, was so hurtful.

And, Sen. Obama, you didn't repudiate those remarks. Every time there's been
an out-of-bounds remark made by a Republican, no matter where they are, I have
repudiated them. I hope that Sen. Obama will repudiate those remarks that were
made by Congressman John Lewis, very unfair and totally inappropriate.

So I want to tell you, we will run a truthful campaign. This is a tough
campaign. And it's a matter of fact that Sen. Obama has spent more money on
negative ads than any political campaign in history. And I can prove it.

And, Sen. Obama, when he said -- and he signed a piece of paper that said he
would take public financing for his campaign if I did -- that was back when he
was a long-shot candidate -- you didn't keep your word.

And when you looked into the camera in a debate with Sen. Clinton and said, "I
will sit down and negotiate with John McCain about public financing before I
make a decision," you didn't tell the American people the truth because you
didn't.

And that's -- that's -- that's an unfortunate part. Now we have the highest
spending by Sen. Obama's campaign than any time since Watergate.


 It's not true.


 Well, if you'll turn on the television, as I -- I watched the Arizona Cardinals defeat the Dallas Cowboys on Sunday.


 Every other ad -- ever other ad was an attack ad on my health care plan. And any objective observer has said it's not true. You're running ads right now that say that I oppose federal funding for stem cell research. I don't.

You're running ads that misportray completely my position on immigration. So
the fact is that Sen. Obama is spending unprecedented -- unprecedented in the
history of American politics, going back to the beginning, amounts of money in
negative attack ads on me.

And of course, I've been talking about the economy. Of course, I've talked to
people like Joe the plumber and tell him that I'm not going to spread his
wealth around. I'm going to let him keep his wealth. And of course, we're
talking about positive plan of action to restore this economy and restore jobs
in America.

That's what my campaign is all about and that's what it'll continue to be all
about.

But again, I did not hear a repudiation of Congressman...


 You've got to read what he said...

(CROSSTALK)


 You've got to read what he said.


 I cannot...


 We do and I hope...


 Sure.


 Well, let me just say I would...


 Let me just say categorically I'm proud of the people that come to our rallies. Whenever you get a large rally of 10,000, 15,000, 20,000 people, you're going to have some fringe peoples. You know that. And I've -- and we've always said that that's not appropriate.

But to somehow say that group of young women who said "Military wives for
McCain" are somehow saying anything derogatory about you, but anything -- and
those veterans that wear those hats that say "World War II, Vietnam, Korea,
Iraq," I'm not going to stand for people saying that the people that come to
my rallies are anything but the most dedicated, patriotic men and women that
are in this nation and they're great citizens.

And I'm not going to stand for somebody saying that because someone yelled
something at a rally -- there's a lot of things that have been yelled at your
rallies, Sen. Obama, that I'm not happy about either.

In fact, some T-shirts that are very...


 ... unacceptable. So the point is -- the point is that I have repudiated every time someone's been out of line, whether they've been part of my campaign or not, and I will continue to do that.

But the fact is that we need to absolutely not stand for the kind of things
that have been going on. I haven't.


 Well, Bob, you asked me a direct question.


 Yes, real quick. Mr. Ayers, I don't care about an old washed-up terrorist. But as Sen. Clinton said in her debates with you, we need to know the full extent of that relationship.

We need to know the full extent of Sen. Obama's relationship with ACORN, who
is now on the verge of maybe perpetrating one of the greatest frauds in voter
history in this country, maybe destroying the fabric of democracy. The same
front outfit organization that your campaign gave $832,000 for "lighting and
site selection." So all of these things need to be examined, of course.


 Well, again, while you were on the board of the Woods Foundation, you and Mr. Ayers, together, you sent $230,000 to ACORN. So -- and you launched your political campaign in Mr. Ayers' living room.


 And the facts are facts and records are records.


 And it's not the fact -- it's not the fact that Sen. Obama chooses to associate with a guy who in 2001 said that he wished he had have bombed more, and he had a long association with him. It's the fact that all the -- all of the details need to be known about Sen. Obama's relationship with them and with ACORN and the American people will make a judgment.

And my campaign is about getting this economy back on track, about creating
jobs, about a brighter future for America. And that's what my campaign is
about and I'm not going to raise taxes the way Sen. Obama wants to raise taxes
in a tough economy. And that's really what this campaign is going to be about.


 Well, Americans have gotten to know Sarah Palin. They know that she's a role model to women and other -- and reformers all over America.

She's a reformer. She is -- she took on a governor who was a member of her own
party when she ran for governor. When she was the head of their energy and
natural resources board, she saw corruption, she resigned and said, "This
can't go on."

She's given money back to the taxpayers. She's cut the size of government. She
negotiated with the oil companies and faced them down, a $40 billion pipeline
of natural gas that's going to relieve the energy needs of the United -- of
what they call the lower 48.

She's a reformer through and through. And it's time we had that bresh of freth
air (sic) -- breath of fresh air coming into our nation's capital and sweep
out the old-boy network and the cronyism that's been so much a part of it that
I've fought against for all these years.

She'll be my partner. She understands reform. And, by the way, she also
understands special-needs families. She understands that autism is on the
rise, that we've got to find out what's causing it, and we've got to reach out
to these families, and help them, and give them the help they need as they
raise these very special needs children.

She understands that better than almost any American that I know. I'm proud of
her.

And she has ignited our party and people all over America that have never been
involved in the political process. And I can't tell how proud I am of her and
her family.

Her husband's a pretty tough guy, by the way, too.


 I think that Joe Biden is qualified in many respects. But I do point out that he's been wrong on many foreign policy and national security issues, which is supposed to be his strength.

He voted against the first Gulf War. He voted against it and, obviously, we
had to take Saddam Hussein out of Kuwait or it would've threatened the Middle
Eastern world supply.

In Iraq, he had this cockamamie idea about dividing Iraq into three countries.
We're seeing Iraq united as Iraqis, tough, hard, but we're seeing them. We're
now about to have an agreement for status of forces in Iraq coming up.

There are several issues in which, frankly, Joe Biden and I open and honestly
disagreed on national security policy, and he's been wrong on a number of the
major ones.

But again, I want to come back to, notice every time Sen. Obama says, "We need
to spend more, we need to spend more, that's the answer" -- why do we always
have to spend more?

Why can't we have transparency, accountability, reform of these agencies of
government? Maybe that's why he's asked for 860 -- sought and proposed $860
billion worth of new spending and wants to raise people's taxes in a time of
incredible challenge and difficulty and heartache for the American families.


 Climate change.


 I think we can, for all intents and purposes, eliminate our dependence on Middle Eastern oil and Venezuelan oil. Canadian oil is fine.

By the way, when Sen. Obama said he would unilaterally renegotiate the North
American Free Trade Agreement, the Canadians said, "Yes, and we'll sell our
oil to China."

You don't tell countries you're going to unilaterally renegotiate agreements
with them.

We can eliminate our dependence on foreign oil by building 45 new nuclear
plants, power plants, right away. We can store and we can reprocess.

Sen. Obama will tell you, in the -- as the extreme environmentalists do, it
has to be safe.

Look, we've sailed Navy ships around the world for 60 years with nuclear power
plants on them. We can store and reprocess spent nuclear fuel, Sen. Obama, no
problem.

So the point is with nuclear power, with wind, tide, solar, natural gas, with
development of flex fuel, hybrid, clean coal technology, clean coal technology
is key in the heartland of America that's hurting rather badly.

So I think we can easily, within seven, eight, ten years, if we put our minds
to it, we can eliminate our dependence on the places in the world that harm
our national security if we don't achieve our independence.


 Well, you know, I admire so much Sen. Obama's eloquence. And you really have to pay attention to words. He said, we will look at offshore drilling. Did you get that? Look at. We can offshore drill now. We've got to do it now. We will reduce the cost of a barrel of oil because we show the world that we have a supply of our own. It's doable. The technology is there and we have to drill now.

Now, on the subject of free trade agreements. I am a free trader. And I need
-- we need to have education and training programs for displaced workers that
work, going to our community colleges.

But let me give you another example of a free trade agreement that Sen. Obama
opposes. Right now, because of previous agreements, some made by President
Clinton, the goods and products that we send to Colombia, which is our largest
agricultural importer of our products, is -- there's a billion dollars that we
-- our businesses have paid so far in order to get our goods in there.

Because of previous agreements, their goods and products come into our country
for free. So Sen. Obama, who has never traveled south of our border, opposes
the Colombia Free Trade Agreement. The same country that's helping us try to
stop the flow of drugs into our country that's killing young Americans.

And also the country that just freed three Americans that will help us create
jobs in America because they will be a market for our goods and products
without having to pay -- without us having to pay the billions of dollars --
the billion dollars and more that we've already paid.

Free trade with Colombia is something that's a no-brainer. But maybe you ought
to travel down there and visit them and maybe you could understand it a lot
better.


 Well, let me just said that that this is -- he -- Sen. Obama doesn't want a free trade agreement with our best ally in the region but wants to sit down across the table without precondition to -- with Hugo Chavez, the guy who has been helping FARC, the terrorist organization.

Free trade between ourselves and Colombia, I just recited to you the benefits
of concluding that agreement, a billion dollars of American dollars that could
have gone to creating jobs and businesses in the United States, opening up
those markets.

So I don't -- I don't think there's any doubt that Sen. Obama wants to
restrict trade and he wants to raise taxes. And the last president of the
United States that tried that was Herbert Hoover, and we went from a deep
recession into a depression.

We're not going to follow that path while I'm -- when I'm president of the
United States.


 Well, it is a terribly painful situation for Americans. They're seeing their premiums, their co-pays go up. Forty-seven million Americans are without health insurance in America today.

And it really is the cost, the escalating costs of health care that are
inflicting such pain on working families and people across this country. And I
am convinced we need to do a lot of things.

We need to put health care records online. The V.A. does that. That will --
that will reduce costs. We need to have more community health centers. We need
to have walk-in clinics.

The rise of obesity amongst young Americans is one of the most alarming
statistics that there is. We should have physical fitness programs and
nutrition programs in schools. Every parent should know what's going on there.

We -- we need to have -- we need to have employers reward employees who join
health clubs and practice wellness and fitness.

But I want to give every American family a $5,000 refundable tax credit. Take
it and get anywhere in America the health care that you wish.

Now, my old buddy, Joe, Joe the plumber, is out there. Now, Joe, Sen. Obama's
plan, if you're a small business and you are able -- and your -- the guy that
sells to you will not have his capital gains tax increase, which Sen. Obama
wants, if you're out there, my friend, and you've got employees, and you've
got kids, if you don't get -- adopt the health care plan that Sen. Obama
mandates, he's going to fine you.

Now, Sen. Obama, I'd like -- still like to know what that fine is going to be,
and I don't think that Joe right now wants to pay a fine when he is seeing
such difficult times in America's economy.

Sen. Obama wants to set up health care bureaucracies, take over the health
care of America through -- as he said, his object is a single payer system.

If you like that, you'll love Canada and England. So the point is...


 No, you stated it.


 Excuse me.


 Zero?


 Hey, Joe, you're rich, congratulations, because what Joe wanted to do was buy the business that he's been working for 10-12 hours a day, seven days a week, and you said that you wanted to spread the wealth, but -- in other words, take Joe's money and then you decide what to do with it.

Now, Joe, you're rich, congratulations, and you will then fall into the
category where you'll have to pay a fine if you don't provide health insurance
that Sen. Obama mandates, not the kind that you think is best for your family,
your children, your employees, but the kind that he mandates for you.

That's big government at its best.

Now, 95 percent of the people in America will receive more money under my plan
because they will receive not only their present benefits, which may be taxed,
which will be taxed, but then you add $5,000 onto it, except for those people
who have the gold-plated Cadillac insurance policies that have to do with
cosmetic surgery and transplants and all of those kinds of things.

And the good thing about this is they'll be able to go across America. The
average cost of a health care insurance plan in America today is $5,800. I'm
going to give them $5,000 to take with them wherever they want to go, and this
will give them affordability.

This will give them availability. This will give them a chance to choose their
own futures, not have Sen. Obama and government decide that for them.

This really gets down to the fundamental difference in our philosophies. If
you notice that in all of this proposal, Senator -- government wants -- Sen.
Obama wants government to do the job.

Sen. Obama wants government to do the job. I want, Joe, you to do the job.

I want to leave money in your pocket. I want you to be able to choose the
health care for you and your family. That's what I'm all about. And we've got
too much government and too much spending and the government is -- the size of
government has grown by 40 percent in the last eight years.

We can't afford that in the next eight years and Sen. Obama, with the
Democrats in charge of Congress, things have gotten worse. Have you noticed,
they've been in charge the last two years.


 I would never and have never in all the years I've been there imposed a litmus test on any nominee to the court. That's not appropriate to do.


 I thought it was a bad decision. I think there were a lot of decisions that were bad. I think that decisions should rest in the hands of the states. I'm a federalist. And I believe strongly that we should have nominees to the United States Supreme Court based on their qualifications rather than any litmus test.

Now, let me say that there was a time a few years ago when the United States
Senate was about to blow up. Republicans wanted to have just a majority vote
to confirm a judge and the Democrats were blocking in an unprecedented
fashion.

We got together seven Republicans, seven Democrats. You were offered a chance
to join. You chose not to because you were afraid of the appointment of,
quote, "conservative judges."

I voted for Justice Breyer and Justice Ginsburg. Not because I agreed with
their ideology, but because I thought they were qualified and that elections
have consequences when presidents are nominated. This is a very important
issue we're talking about.

Sen. Obama voted against Justice Breyer and Justice Roberts on the grounds
that they didn't meet his ideological standards. That's not the way we should
judge these nominees. Elections have consequences. They should be judged on
their qualifications. And so that's what I will do.

I will find the best people in the world -- in the United States of America
who have a history of strict adherence to the Constitution. And not
legislating from the bench.


 I would consider anyone in their qualifications. I do not believe that someone who has supported Roe v. Wade that would be part of those qualifications. But I certainly would not impose any litmus test.


 Obviously, that law waved the statute of limitations, which you could have gone back 20 or 30 years. It was a trial lawyer's dream.

Let me talk to you about an important aspect of this issue. We have to change
the culture of America. Those of us who are proudly pro-life understand that.
And it's got to be courage and compassion that we show to a young woman who's
facing this terribly difficult decision.

Sen. Obama, as a member of the Illinois State Senate, voted in the Judiciary
Committee against a law that would provide immediate medical attention to a
child born of a failed abortion. He voted against that.

And then, on the floor of the State Senate, as he did 130 times as a state
senator, he voted present.

Then there was another bill before the Senate Judiciary Committee in the state
of Illinois not that long ago, where he voted against a ban on partial-birth
abortion, one of the late-term abortion, a really -- one of the bad
procedures, a terrible. And then, on the floor of the Illinois State Senate,
he voted present.

I don't know how you vote "present" on some of that. I don't know how you
align yourself with the extreme aspect of the pro- abortion movement in
America. And that's his record, and that's a matter of his record.

And he'll say it has something to do with Roe v. Wade, about the Illinois
State Senate. It was clear-cut votes that Sen. Obama voted, I think, in direct
contradiction to the feelings and views of mainstream America.


 Just again...


 Just again, the example of the eloquence of Sen. Obama. He's health for the mother. You know, that's been stretched by the pro-abortion movement in America to mean almost anything.

That's the extreme pro-abortion position, quote, "health." But, look, Cindy
and I are adoptive parents. We know what a treasure and joy it is to have an
adopted child in our lives. We'll do everything we can to improve adoption in
this country.

But that does not mean that we will cease to protect the rights of the unborn.
Of course, we have to come together. Of course, we have to work together, and,
of course, it's vital that we do so and help these young women who are facing
such a difficult decision, with a compassion, that we'll help them with the
adoptive services, with the courage to bring that child into this world and
we'll help take care of it.


 Well, it's the civil rights issue of the 21st century. There's no doubt that we have achieved equal access to schools in America after a long and difficult and terrible struggle.

But what is the advantage in a low income area of sending a child to a failed
school and that being your only choice?

So choice and competition amongst schools is one of the key elements that's
already been proven in places in like New Orleans and New York City and other
places, where we have charter schools, where we take good teachers and we
reward them and promote them.

And we find bad teachers another line of work. And we have to be able to give
parents the same choice, frankly, that Sen. Obama and Mrs. Obama had and Cindy
and I had to send our kids to the school -- their kids to the school of their
choice.

Charter schools aren't the only answer, but they're providing competition.
They are providing the kind of competitions that have upgraded both schools --
types of schools.

Now, throwing money at the problem is not the answer. You will find that some
of the worst school systems in America get the most money per student.

So I believe that we need to reward these good teachers.

We need to encourage programs such as Teach for America and Troops to Teachers
where people, after having served in the military, can go right to teaching
and not have to take these examinations which -- or have the certification
that some are required in some states.

Look, we must improve education in this country. As far as college education
is concerned, we need to make those student loans available. We need to give
them a repayment schedule that they can meet. We need to have full student
loan program for in-state tuition. And we certainly need to adjust the certain
loan eligibility to inflation.


 Well, sure. I'm sure you're aware, Sen. Obama, of the program in the Washington, D.C., school system where vouchers are provided and there's a certain number, I think it's a thousand and some and some 9,000 parents asked to be eligible for that.

Because they wanted to have the same choice that you and I and Cindy and your
wife have had. And that is because they wanted to choose the school that they
thought was best for their children.

And we all know the state of the Washington, D.C., school system. That was
vouchers. That was voucher, Sen. Obama. And I'm frankly surprised you didn't
pay more attention to that example.

Now as far as the No Child Left Behind is concerned, it was a great first
beginning in my view. It had its flaws, it had its problems, the first time we
had looked at the issue of education in America from a nationwide perspective.
And we need to fix a lot of the problems. We need to sit down and reauthorize
it.

But, again, spending more money isn't always the answer. I think the Head
Start program is a great program. A lot of people, including me, said, look,
it's not doing what it should do. By the third grade many times children who
were in the Head Start program aren't any better off than the others.

Let's reform it. Let's reform it and fund it. That was, of course, out-of-
bounds by the Democrats. We need to reform these programs. We need to have
transparency. We need to have rewards. It's a system that cries out for
accountability and transparency and the adequate funding.

And I just said to you earlier, town hall meeting after town hall meeting,
parents come with kids, children -- precious children who have autism. Sarah
Palin knows about that better than most. And we'll find and we'll spend the
money, research, to find the cause of autism. And we'll care for these young
children. And all Americans will open their wallets and their hearts to do so.

But to have a situation, as you mentioned in our earlier comments, that the
most expensive education in the world is in the United States of America also
means that it cries out for reform, as well.

And I will support those reforms, and I will fund the ones that are reformed.
But I'm not going to continue to throw money at a problem. And I've got to
tell you that vouchers, where they are requested and where they are agreed to,
are a good and workable system. And it's been proven.


 Who supports vouchers.


 She supports vouchers, also.


 Because there's not enough vouchers; therefore, we shouldn't do it, even though it's working. I got it.


 Well, thank you again, Bob.

Thanks to Hofstra.

And it's great to be with you again. I think we've had a very healthy
discussion.

My friends, as I said in my opening remarks, these are very difficult times
and challenges for America. And they were graphically demonstrated again
today.

America needs a new direction. We cannot be satisfied with what we've been
doing for the last eight years.

I have a record of reform, and taking on my party, the other party, the
special interests, whether it be an HMO Patients' Bill of Rights, or trying to
clean up the campaign finance system in -- in this country, or whether it be
establishment of a 9/11 Commission, I have a long record of it.

And I've been a careful steward of your tax dollars. We have to make health
care affordable and available. We have to make quality education there for all
of our citizens, not just the privileged few.

We have to stop the spending. We have to stop the spending, which has
mortgaged your children's futures.

All of these things and all the promises and commitments that Sen. Obama and I
made (inaudible) made to you tonight will base -- will be based on whether you
can trust us or not to be careful stewards of your tax dollar, to make sure
America is safe and secure and prosperous, to make sure we reform the
institutions of government.

That's why I've asked you not only to examine my record, but my proposals for
the future of this country.

I've spent my entire life in the service of this nation and putting my country
first. As a long line of McCains that have served our country for a long time
in war and in peace, it's been the great honor of my life, and I've been proud
to serve.

And I hope you'll give me an opportunity to serve again. I'd be honored and
humbled.


