 Joe Biden, United States senator from the state of Delaware. 


 Yes, sir. 


 I'm not going to make a judgment of why there were wrong. I'll tell you why I was right. No one has fought harder to change this president's policy -- matter of fact, the very language that was vetoed in the bill was language that I and, along with Senator Levin, put in, and I suggested over a year ago in a proposal I laid forward, that is, start to draw down troops immediately, have them all out by '08. 

But, you know, the fact of the matter is it's about time -- we've not been
told the truth about this war from the beginning by this president, and the
fact is we got to tell the truth now. The truth now is there are 160,000
forces in Iraq; they're in harm's way. Seventy percent of all the injuries are
caused by those IEDs. We know that if we put in these mine-resistant vehicles,
these V-shaped hull vehicles, put them in now -- we could save two-thirds of
the lives and two-thirds of the injuries. My colleagues joined me when I
proposed fast-forwarding the funding for that so we could get 2,500 of them
into the field by August.

If we had voted no and stopped this, it would have delayed that. Lives are at
stake. I -- and I knew the right political vote, but I tell you what, some
things are worth losing elections over.


 Because I don't want to judge them. I mean, these are my friends. We work like -- we've worked together. We work hard and try to end this war. We hear people telling everybody, "Just stop the war, Congress." We have 50 votes. We're busting our neck every single day. So I respect them. But look, I cannot, as long as there is a single troop in Iraq that I know if I take action by funding them, I increase the prospect they'll live or not be injured, I cannot and will not vote no to fund them. 


 Wolf, look, the Republicans and this president have not told us the truth about this war from the beginning. The last thing we Democrats should do is not be telling the truth. We have 50 votes in the United States Senate. We have less of a majority in the House than at any time other than the last eight years. Ladies and gentlemen, you're going to end this war when you elect a Democratic president. You need 67 votes to end this war. I love these guys who tell you they're going to stop the war. Let me tell you straight up the truth; the truth of the matter is, the only one that's emboldened the enemy has been George Bush by his policies, not us funding the war. We're funding the safety of those troops there till we can get 67 votes. 


 Well, he's not wrong. There doesn't need to be a 700-mile fence, but there does need -- look, we got to start as if we -- we all love this phrase, "Start talking truth to power." Fourteen million illegals -- now you tell me how many buses, car loads, planes that are going to go out, round up all these people, spend hundreds of millions of billions of dollars for the whole world watching, while we send these folks back. Rather than, rather than, get a background check on all of them, take out the criminals, get them back, and provide for a means by which we allow earned citizenship over the next decade or so. 

Folks, being commander in chief requires you to occasionally be practical.
(Laughter.)


 Well, that fence -- the reason I voted for the fence was that was the only alternative that was there, and I voted for the fence related to drugs. You can -- a fence will stop 20 kilos of cocaine coming through that fence. It will not stop someone climbing over it or around it. 

And so -- but this bill has a much more reasonable provision in it. It has
much -- much shorter fence, it does have the Border Patrol requirement, and it
is designed not just to deal with illegals; it's designed -- a serious drug
trafficking problem we have.


 (Off mike.) 


 Peter Pace is flat wrong. I've been to Afghanistan, I've been to Iraq seven times, I've been in the Balkans, I've been in these foxholes with these kids, literally in bunkers with them. Let me tell you something, nobody asked anybody else whether they're gay in those holes -- those foxholes, number one. 

Number two, our allies -- the British, the French, all our major allies --
gays openly serve. I don't know the last time an American soldier said to a
backup from a Brit, "Hey, by the way, let me check. Are you gay? Are you
straight?" This is ridiculous. And by the way, we got a war on a hands we're
trying to end; in the meantime, we're breaking the military. Nine thousand of
these people have been kicked out.


 This is not a rational policy. 


 Can I say -- 


 Take away the subsidy, which I've introduced legislation to do. It's about $6 billion, 2.7 (billion dollars) directly, to the oil companies, number one. 

Number two, investigate as the president of the United States. Use the Justice
Department and go in and investigate this whole issue of price gouging.

Number three, though, we have to do what we all have said here, but first and
foremost, significantly raise the mileage automobiles get and mandate it.


 Well, first of all, I would do away with the policy of regime change. What we're saying to everybody in Iran is, "Look, by the way, give up the one thing that keeps us from attacking you, and after that we're going to attack you. We're going to take you down." It's a bizarre notion, number one. 

Number two, understand how weak Iran is. They are not a year away or two years
away. They're a decade away from being able to weaponize exactly what the
question was, if they put a nuclear weapon on top of a missile that can
strike. They're far away from that.

Number three, in fact, we're going to -- we have to understand how weak that
government is. They import almost all of their refined oil. By 2014, they're
going to be importing their crude oil. There's much better ways, if we had to
get to the point of being real sanctions, of doing economic sanctions on them
forcefully that way. But at the end of the day, if they posed the missile,
stuck it on a pad, I'd take it out.


 It would depend on how many innocent civilians -- 


 Wolf? Yeah, I just was there. 


 You know, we have to stop talking about it. A lot of talk goes on about it. The United Nations has already said that they're prepared to put in a 21,000 force, including the African Union. In fact, you have in the capital of Sudan the government saying we're not going to allow that to happen. They have forfeited their sovereignty by engaging in genocide. We should impose a no-fly zone. If the U.N. will not move now, we should impose a no-fly zone, and we should commit 25,000 -- 2,500 NATO troops. You could take out the Janjawid tomorrow. 

I went there, I sat in the borders, I went in those camps. They're going to
have thousands and thousands and thousands of people die. We've go to stop
talking and act. That's why last Monday I went to see the president of the
United Nations at the General Assembly, as well as the secretary-general, to
make that point.


 I'm talking about American troops. 


 Well, I was there. Well, I was -- 


 In the meantime, (50,000 ?) are dead. 


 Wolf, the reason we have no moral authority is we're not acting. I heard the same argument with Milosevic. I went over there, found out there was genocide going on, I came to your husband, I said, "We must act!" Now, look, we acted. Not an American was killed. We saved hundreds of thousands of lives. By the time all these guys talk, 50,000 more people are going to be dead! They're going to be dead! And I tell you, I guarantee you, we have the capacity, by setting up a no-fly zone, to shut down the Janjawid. 


 That's our moral authority, exercise it! 

(Applause.)


 Ten seconds. If you want to do away with the interest groups, go to public financing of elections. Let's cut through all this malarkey. (Applause.) 

That is the bottom line. As long as there are massive contributions pouring
into the system, you're going to get these earmarks in the middle of the night
that have nothing to do with the people's interest. So you want to do this?
Reform the system. (Scattered applause.) Make a public financing system. That
will change the earmarks.


 I would end the war in Iraq and immediately move to diffuse the possible war in Iran and immediately diffuse the -- what's going on in the Korean peninsula. Those are the three most important things that the president has to deal with. And by the way, when power is handed from this president to the next, the next president is going to be left with no margin for error. They better be smarter than their advisers. 


 The answer to your question: It is still the defining issue. And the decision today -- look at the minority views. The minority stated, had the rationale that was applied by the majority been applied the last 50 years, we would have never, never overcome the state's effort to ignore Brown versus the Board. 

But we can do something about it, and the place to start is through the next
president of the Supreme Court of the United States of America. As some of you
know, some of the people out on this stage and the press criticized me for
being awful tough on Justice Roberts and awful tough on Alito; the problem was
the rest of us weren't tough enough on them. (Applause.) They have turned the
court upside down, and the next president of the United States will be able to
determine whether or not we go forward or continue this slide. It's the single
most imperative generational decision the next president will make, and you
better pick the right person to make it. (Applause.)


 You know, DeWayne, one of the things that we all talk about is this achievement gap. We should remind everybody that the day before a black child, a minority child, steps into the classroom, half the achievement gap already exists. That is, they already start behind. So the moment they walk into that school, they are already behind. 

And that gap widens. And it widens because we do not start school earlier. We
do not give single mothers in disadvantaged homes the opportunities that they
need in order to know what to do to prepare their children. A mother who talks
to her child on a regular basis from infancy to being a toddler, that child
when it's two years old will have a vocabulary 300 words more than a child not
talked to.

So it's simple. You've got to start off and focus on the nurturing and
education of children when they're very young, particularly children from
disadvantaged families. You've got to invest in starting kids in preschool at
age four. They have a 20 percent better chance of graduating when they're
there. And you've got to make sure, as you go through the system, you have
smaller classrooms, better teachers in the disadvantaged schools.


 It's a -- time's up. Thank you. 


 I will try to answer your question directly. You said, how do we prevent -- prevent -- these 17-year-olds from getting AIDS, HIV, how do you prevent that. All the things that were said here are good ideas; they don't prevent that. What's happened is there is a policy of neglect, denial and lack of honesty out there. The fact of the matter is, what Hillary points out, there's neglect on the part of the medical and the white community focusing on educating the minority community out there. 

I spent last summer going through the black sections of my town, holding
rallies in parks, trying to get black men to understand it is not unmanly to
wear a condom, getting women to understand they can say no, getting people in
the position where testing matters. I got tested for AIDS. I know Barack got
tested for AIDS. (Laughter.) There's no shame in being tested for AIDS. It's
an important thing.

Because the fact of the matter is, in the community, in the communities
engaged in denial, they're engaged in denial, no one wants to talk about it in
the community, and we do not have enough leaders, in the community and outside
the community, demanding we face the reality, confront the men in the
community, as well as the women, letting them know there are alternatives.
(Applause.)


 And I got tested to save my life, because I had 13 pints of blood transfusion. 


 Warren -- Warren Buffett is right. I would eliminate the tax cut for the wealthy. They didn't ask for it, as someone earlier said. They don't need it. They're as patriotic as anyone else if you ask them, and we've asked nothing of them. 

The second point is, understand what happened this last election, in 2000. The
first time in our history since we had the federal income tax, there was a
fundamental shift of the burden from (sic) people who are wage earners away
from people who are investors.

For the first time in our history, we're in a position where those who are the
wage-earners are paying a bigger chunk than they should. It's got to shift
back, and the basis for them doing that is they really believe the wealthy
know better. They think we don't know how -- average folks don't know how to
make the economy work. It's all about their ideology. It's got to
fundamentally change. You have to tax investment and you've got to give a
break, a break to wage-earners.


 As you well know, the bulk of the inequity's at the state level, not at the federal level, number one. 

Number two, we need diversion out of the system. I'm the guy that wrote the
drug court legislation that is in the law right now.

Number three, you have to eliminate the disparity between crack and powdered
cocaine. I've introduced legislation to do that, one to one, no difference.

And number four, you have to find a way in which you insist from a federal
level that the states in fact apply the law equally -- they don't -- through
the Speedy Trial Act. The states -- 650,000 people coming out of the jail in
the state prisons --


 Three hundred thousand will come out addicted from the prison this year. 


 The U.S. Constitution should be sufficient. We don't need to go to the United Nations; all we got to do is step up. We got to step up and pay to rebuild those firehouses, pay to bring those cops back, pay to rebuild those hospitals. It is a nation's problem, it is not the problem merely of the people of Louisiana or New Orleans. This is an American city incapable on its own of doing this. (Applause.) It's an American problem. We should guarantee the reconstruction. 


 I agree with everything that was said here. But the bottom line here is that eliminating the tax breaks is not going to keep jobs here in America. We've got to make it more attractive to have jobs here in America and for corporations to be here. 

You've got to take the burden off the corporations with a health care system
that's universal, so we're not at a competitive disadvantage. You've got to
have a better education system to provide for the highest-tech jobs that we
educate our folks for, so we're not importing 400,000 computer engineers to
work in Silicon Valley. And you've got to deal with the innovation and
infrastructure needs in this country -- tunnels, bridges, et cetera -- which
we haven't done to make us more competitive.


 I have been calling for three years to stop talking and start acting. We don't have to wait to get out of Iraq to regain our moral authority. We've lost part of our moral authority because we stood by and watched this carnage. And if need be, if the rest of the world will not act, we should, and should have already -- two years ago -- imposed a no-fly zone, and we should have two years ago, absent the willingness of the rest of the world to act, put American troops on the ground to stop the carnage. (Applause.) 


 I didn't drop the ball. Let me tell you, in 1992, I proposed, as labor knows, a $20 billion infrastructure bill proposed by the mayors. We don't need any more studies; 560,000 bridges -- 27 percent of them are in bad shape. We have been proposing since the day after 9/11 that we spend $980 million to refurbish the tunnels on the East Coast. More people tomorrow morning will be in Hillary's city sitting in aluminum tubes underneath in six old tunnels that have no escape, no lighting -- than in seven -- or, excuse me -- than in 25 full 747s. I've been pushing that from day one. 

My colleagues need to get on board. We don't need any more studies. We don't
need any more operation. What we need is to put America back to work, put them
to work at a prevailing wage, make us safer as a consequence of that. (Cheers,
applause.) And when it comes to determining whether or not this administration
has been responsible, I can hardly wait to debate Rudy Giuliani on the issue
of whether we're safer or not.

The 9/11 commission, $42 billion has not been funded, $42 billion. These guys,
Republicans, have been irresponsible about our infrastructure, our security
and the safety of this country. (Cheers, applause.)


 I hope that red light's going to malfunction for me, too. 


 Only kidding. 

Hey, look, a president's job is to create jobs, not to export jobs, and the
idea that we are not willing to take the prime minister of Canada and the
president of Mexico to the mat to make this agreement work is just a lack of
presidential leadership.

I would lead, I would do that, I would change it. (Applause.)


 Any time. 


 They're neither. The fact of the matter is, though, they hold the mortgage on our house. (Crowd reacts.) This administration, in order to fund a war that shouldn't be being fought and tax cuts that weren't needed for the wealthy -- we're now in debt almost a trillion dollars -- a trillion dollars to China. We better end that war, cut those taxes, reduce the deficit and make sure that they no longer own the mortgage on our home. 


 You know, Bush has not told the truth for seven years; it's time we tell the truth. The truth is if Iraq -- if al Qaeda establishes a base in Iraq, all these people who talk about going into Pakistan are going to have to send your kids back to Iraq. 

And so the fact of the matter is it matters how we get out of Iraq. And I'm
the only one on this stage that has a detailed political plan how to get out.
Separate the parties. Let them be in regions. Give them control over their own
security. Set up a limited central government. Begin to draw down our troops.
But let's start talking the truth to the American people.


 (Madame ?), I'm sorry about -- I understand what it's like to lose a spouse, and it's not an easy thing, and my heart goes out to you. 

I would implement every one of the recommendations that have been already made
and have not been implemented. The president of the United Mine Workers is
sitting down there. He's forgotten more about this than most of us know.

But folks, I got to say something here. Everyone's entitled to their own
opinion, but not their own facts. The truth of the matter is, none of what you
heard earlier is correct. It's already the policy of the United States, has
been for four years, that if there was actionable intelligence, we would go
into -- into Pakistan. That's the law.

Secondly, it's already the law, that I wrote into the law, saying that in fact
we don't cooperation from Musharraf, we cut off his money.

It's time everybody start to know the facts -- the facts. (Booing.)


 The first thing I'd do is let you know I know what it's like. I spent seven months in the hospital with a couple cranial aneurysms and a major embolism. If there's any nurses -- if there's any angels in heaven, they're all nurses; I can assure you that, number one. (Cheers, applause.) 


 (Off mike) -- in 1999, 1998, 1997 -- 


 The answer is I would consider that. The fact of the matter is the next president of the United States is going to have to bring this country together. We are not blue and red. We cannot be sustained that way. We cannot get health care, we cannot get a foreign policy, we cannot do anything with a 51 percent solution. 

Every one of the things we've talked about here requires a consensus, and if
you don't have the experience that I have and the success I've had reaching
across the aisle, what makes you think you're going to get a national health
care plan? What makes you think you're going to have an education plan? What
makes you think you're going to have a rational foreign policy? The answer is,
I would consider the most competent people I could, and I would try my best to
reach across the aisle to reasonable people to unite this country. It needs to
be united. (Applause.)


 Yes. (Laughter, cheers, applause.) 


 No, it wouldn't bother me, because I believe if I did the job I'm capable of doing, it would not start then. The reason it started so early now is because we're so angry, we're so frustrated. We know how badly this president has ruined this country. We know how terrible we are internationally. 

And I believe, quite frankly, that there are certain things that when I became
president, you'd never have to wonder what I thought and you'd never have to
wonder whether -- what I was willing to lose over. I think the next president
of the United States when he or she takes office better understand two things.
One, they're going to be left with virtually no margin of error. And two, they
better understand and believe what it's worth losing over if they're going to
get anything done. That's the president I'd be. I wouldn't worry a bit about
it.


 I think it can be used as a fact -- a declaration. 

But look, we have a -- we have a problem in the Senate -- and I'm not just
directing this at Hillary; all -- there were 75 other people who voted with
her, we're in a minority -- that there are consequences for what we do. And
it's not even about going to war.

Let's look at what happened from the moment that vote took place.

Oil prices went up to $90 a barrel. Who benefits from that? All this talk of
war, all this talk of declaring people to be terrorists, drove up the price of
oil.

Secondly, we have emboldened Bush at a minimum. His talk of World War III,
totally irresponsible talk. We've emboldened him, Tim, to be able to move if
he chooses to move. They're terrorists. The fact that they're terrorists on
one side of the border or the other, we've just declared them terrorists. That
gives him the color of right to move against them.

Thirdly, this has incredible consequences for Afghanistan and Pakistan. Nobody
talks about this. Do 75 of our colleagues not understand? We have now driven
underground every moderate in Pakistan and in Afghanistan. This literally --
literally -- puts Karzai, as well as Musharraf, in jeopardy.

The notion here is it plays into this whole urban legend that America is on a
crusade against Islam. This was bad -- if nothing else happens, not another
single thing, this was bad policy.

The president had the ability to do everything that that amendment, that
resolution called for without us talking to it. And all it has done is hurt
us, even if not another single action is taken. Actions have consequences. Big
nations can't bluff.


 I would pledge to keep us safe. If you told me, Tim -- and this is not -- this is complicated stuff. We talk about this in isolation. The fact of the matter is the Iranians may get 2.6 kilograms of highly enriched uranium; the Pakistanis have hundreds, thousands of kilograms of highly enriched uranium. 

If by attacking Iran to stop them from getting 2.6 kilograms of highly
enriched uranium, the government in Pakistan falls, who has missiles already
deployed, with nuclear weapons on them, that can already reach Israel, already
reach India, then that's a bad bargain.

Presidents make wise decisions informed not by a vacuum in which they operate,
by the situation they find themselves in the world. I will do all in my power
to stop Iran from getting nuclear weapons, but I will never take my eye off
the ball.

What is the greatest threat to the United States of America: 2.6 kilograms of
highly enriched uranium in Tehran or an out of control Pakistan? It's not
close.


 I'm not running against Hillary Clinton. I'm running to lead the free world. I'm running to lead this country. 

And the irony is Rudy -- Rudy Giuliani, probably the most underqualified man
since George Bush to seek the presidency -- (laughter, scattered applause) --
is here talking about any of the people here. Rudy Giuliani. I mean, think
about it. Rudy Giuliani. There's -- there's only three things he mentions in a
sentence: a noun and a verb and 9/11. I mean, there's nothing else.
(Laughter.)

There's nothing else. (Applause.) And I mean it sincerely. He is genuinely not
qualified to be president.

Here's a man who brags about how he made the city safe. It was the Biden crime
bill, that became the Clinton crime bill, that allowed him to do that. They
wipe it out; he's remained silent. The 9/11 commission comes along and says
the way to keep your city safe is to do the following things. He's been
silent. He's been -- done nothing.

And now he's talking about he's going to go in and he will demonstrate to Iran
he's going to in fact lay down the law. This man is truly not qualified to be
president. I'm looking forward to running against Rudy Giuliani. (Laughter.)

And with regard to my experience, hey, Bill, 1979 I was -- I led a delegation
of 19 senators negotiating the START agreement with Brezhnev. I was deeply
involved in Bosnia, as the first lady and now Senator Clinton will tell you.
I've been negotiating while you were still in Congress, man.

And so the point is -- and I introduced the first public financing bill. If
you all had been around long enough, you may -- no, maybe have been around too
long, they forget all the wonderful things I've done here.

But anyway -- (laughter) -- all kidding aside -- (laughter) -- I'm running not
against Hillary Clinton or anybody on this stage. I'm running to be the leader
of this country, to put it back on track and to regain control in the world
which is lost.


 A big piece of that cost is risk. People are betting on things getting worse. That old joke -- you know, when you're in a hole, you should stop digging. Why do we continue to cause the price of oil to rise by continuing to rattle a saber with Iran? Why do we continue to cause the price of oil to rise by a foreign policy that is (absolutely moribund ?) of any center? And what we have to do immediately to take care of those people in Iowa and New Hampshire, provide for emergency fuel assistance. 


 Yes, I proposed it in 1987. We should go to school longer. We either have to assume that our kids are natively brighter than every other child in the world or that somehow we have to go to school longer. 

Secondly, we should have a minimum of 16 years of education.

Thirdly, we should be focusing on the socially economic disadvantaged, mostly
minorities in inner cities. That's something we've ignored. We've paid no
attention to it. We pretend they're the same circumstances every other kid in
America. They start off with a half; half of the education gap exists before
they set foot in the first classroom. That should be the focus.


 You got to help them pay off their -- they start off in the hole. They graduate and they have these gigantic bills, 40,000 bucks a year. They graduate hundreds of thousands of dollars in debt. You got to give them the ability to write that off if they engage in public service, move into areas where they need doctors, number one. 

Now, number two, you got to get the insurance company out of looking over
their soldiers in everything. They know the decisions to make. They know what
they should be doing, and they should be rewarded for their decisions.

The light's on, and I want you to know I stay inside my time.


 (Laughs.) 


 If I were president, I'd shut down, flat shut down any imports from China, period, in terms of toys -- flat shut it down, number one. (Applause.) 

Number two, imagine if this -- Morocco was selling these -- these toys. We
would have shut it down a year ago.

They have mortgage on our house because Bush mortgaged us to a trillion
dollars to them. He is responsible for this. This is outrageous.

And by the way, where is Rudy when we need him here? (Laughter.) He could have
helped you on this. You know what I mean? On the UFOs. I don't -- (laughter)
-- I don't know.


 Oh, no, no, no, no, no. (Laughter.) 


 Don't do it. No. Don't make me speak. 


 Hey, look, let's get to it, folks. The American people don't give a darn about any of this stuff that's going on up here. Look, they're sitting -- now, seriously, think about it. They're sitting down at their table tonight, they've put their kids to bed, and they're worrying about whether or not their child's going to run into a drug dealer on the way to school. 

They're worrying about whether or not they're going to be able to pay for
their mortgage, because even if they didn't have one of those subprime
mortgages, things are looking bad for them. They're worrying about whether
they're going to keep their job. And they're worrying about their son in the
National Guard's going to get killed in Iraq. (Applause.)

Ladies and gentlemen, look, every -- every political campaign gets to this
place. And I'm not criticizing any of the three people who are the ones who
always get to talk all the time at these events. (Laughter.) I'm not. I'm not.
I'm not criticizing. But look, folks, let's get straight to it here. This is
not about experience, it's not about change, it's about action.

Who among us is going to be able to on day one step in, (end ?) the war. Who
among us understands what to do about Pakistan? Who among us is going to pick
up the phone and immediately interface with Putin and tell him to lay off
Georgia because Saakashvili is in real trouble? Who among us knows what
they're doing?

I have 35 years of experience. While everyone's talking about their experience
-- and Hillary has a great experience, and John and the rest of them -- I was
passing the Violence Against Women Act. I was passing the crime bill.


 Hell, no, I wouldn't support any of these guys. (Laughter.) 

No, I'm joking, joking. Of course, for them all.


 No. (Laughter, applause.) 


 An excellent teacher should be judged by whether or not that teacher, outside of the classroom, improves themselves and their teaching skills. My wife got two master's degrees and a doctorate degree. That's merit pay. She went out there and she earned the ability to be able to demonstrate to everyone that she was an exceptional teacher, because she went out and she gathered this additional knowledge instead of being -- not just being a good teacher. 

Here's the problem with simple merit pay, based on the principle. Who makes
the decision, based on merit pay? (Applause.) Who's the person who --
(inaudible)? I believe there should be teaching excellence. I think we should
demand more of our teachers in continuing education. I think there should --
and unions don't like that. I think we should demand more of the teachers in
terms of their participation after school and in school. But I think you've
got to pay them.

And the last point I'll make is Bill is correct; you have to -- look, the idea
you start teachers at $28,000 in most states when, in the countries we're
competing with, they start off and they graduate their -- the graduating
seniors are getting the same pay that engineers are getting in those same
schools.

My father has an expression, God love him, before he passed away. He'd say,
"Don't tell me what you value. Show me your budget, and I will tell you what
you value." I've laid out a $30 billion plan -- (applause) -- over five years
--


 \-- (to pay ?) -- 16 years of education is what our kids need. They need to start two years earlier and be guaranteed two years after school. 


 First of all, I do not think we should maintain the same aid we're giving. I have made it clear to Musharraf personally, when he called me, and I've spoken personally to Bhutto -- before, I might add, the president spoke to either one of them -- I spoke to them and I indicated very clearly two things. 

One, if he did not take off his uniform, if he did not hold fair and free
elections by the middle of January, I would, on the floor of the Senate, move
to take away the aid we're giving with regard to F- 16s and P-3s, because
that's the biggest leverage you have on him within his military. He is not a
sole player. He has to keep his military happy as well. I would use that
leverage.

Secondly, I've indicated that what we should do is move from a Musharraf
policy to a Pakistan policy. Unlike anyone else, within five days of this
happening I laid out a detailed plan. The president hasn't. No one on this
stage has. No one else has -- a detailed plan as president how I would proceed
with Iraq. And you have to move from military aid to giving to the middle
class there. The middle class is overwhelmingly the majority. They get no
connection with the United States. We have to significantly increase our
economic aid relative to education, relative to NGOs, relative to all those
things that make a difference in the lives of ordinary people over there, and
not be doing it through the military side.


 I know there's more to say, Campbell. I appreciate you asking me the question and I'm sorry I answered it. I know you're not supposed to answer questions, based on what I've heard. (Laughter.) 


 That's right. 


 Wolf -- 30 seconds, Wolf. Thirty seconds. 


 Look, it's not the agreement; it's the man. Under the WTO, we can shut this down. What are they all talking about here? It's about a president who won't enforce the law. (Applause.) When they contaminated chicken, what happened? They cut off all chickens going in from Delaware -- a $3 billion industry -- into China. They cut it off. We have power under the -- this agreement. I don't know what anybody's talking about here. Enforce the agreement. 


 Shut it down. (Applause.) 


 The way to do that, ma'am, is to not ratchet up the winds of war here. We had a vote in the United States Senate on declaring the Qods Force -- their special forces -- and the Revolutionary Guard to be a terrorist organization. A lot of people voted for that; 70 some voted for it. It's a serious, serious mistake because what it does, it was completely counterproductive. (Applause.) 

What it did was, ma'am, what it did was it convinced the rest of the Muslim
world this is really a war against Islam and not a war in Iraq; and number
two, it rose the -- it caused the price of oil to head to $100 a barrel. We're
paying $30 a barrel for what they call a risk premium. And it helped
destabilize the situation both in Iran -- I mean Afghanistan and Pakistan.

So the way to do this is to keep quiet, hush up, and do what I told the
president personally and what I've said as chairman of the Foreign Relations
Committee. If he takes the country to war in Iraq (sic) without a vote of
Congress, which will not exist, then he should be impeached. (Cheers,
applause.)


 I wasn't attacking Senator Clinton. 

Very quickly, Senator Obama.


 You know, let's -- facts are a funny thing; they get in the way. (Laughter.) You know what I mean? 

There is nothing in the Patriot Act that allows profiling. Let's get that
straight.

Nothing in the Patriot Act allows profiling, number one. You're profiled
illegally. I have voted against and worked with legislation with many people
on this stage to stop profiling. That's number one. It did not. It's not
because of the Patriot Act. It's a convenient thing to talk about, number one.

Number two, you know, when we had a chance to close down Guantanamo, I voted
against funding Guantanamo. Other folks up here voted for funding it,
including the two leading candidates. I voted to not build the new $36 million
part. I called for closing it three years ago.

And so folks, this -- but this is not about who was right when, it's what's
your plan now? What are you going to do now? (Applause.)


 Suzanne's decided. I'm not answering her question. I'm answering the question of the woman who is there. Okay? (Cheers, applause.) And -- number one. And then I'll answer Suzanne's question. 


 Do you want me to answer your question? 


 I will answer both. I'll answer your question first. Your question first, is I've presided over more Supreme Court justices than anyone in American history, number one. 

Number two, I have taken on those justices who in fact show no balance. They
are ideologues. We have enough ideologues. We have enough professors on the
bench. We have enough -- I want a someone who ran for dog catcher. I want
someone -- (laughter) -- literally. Not a joke. When Hillary's husband asked
me for his advice when he was appointing people, I wanted to go to people, and
so did he. We couldn't -- four people turned it down.

We wanted to get someone who in fact had -- knew what it was like to live
life, knew what it was as not some intellectual feat. (Applause.)

And by the way, the next person that's appointed on a Biden administration is
going to be a woman. We don't have enough women on the bench, number one.


 Number two, Suzanne Malveaux's question. I would not appoint anyone who did not understand that Section 5 of the 14th Amendment and the Liberty Clause of the 14th Amendment provided a right to privacy. That's the question I'd ask them. (Applause.) If that is answered correctly, that that is the case, then it answers the question, which means they would support Roe v. Wade. (Applause.) 


 Let me give you a direct answer to your question. I'd start by ending the war, and I've already gained the respect of my Republican colleagues; the only person that's gotten 75 votes in the United States Senate on a plan to end the war. 

It's sitting in a drawer. It'll begin the day that I get elected.

Secondly, one of the ways you work in the House and the Senate is over time
you gain respect. Find me a Republican on the other side that doesn't respect
my judgment and doesn't think I tell them straight up the truth. I've worked
with them. I've already done it. I would also include Republicans in my
administration. Look, the basic premise you operate on, I reject. The vast
majority of Republicans think this war stinks as well. The vast majority of
Republicans out there think that our foreign policy is shambles. The vast
majority of the Independents think that.

Folks, this is not going to be that hard. This is like not -- this isn't
pushing the rope. They're sticking with George Bush out of loyalty, but I
promise you I've already brought them along. I brought them along on Bosnia
under the administration of Senator Clinton -- of President Clinton. I brought
them along on the issue of dealing with arms control. I brought them along on
the issue of the war in Iraq.

So folks, don't --


 \-- buy into this premise that Republicans -- average Republicans and Republican senators don't agree to this, they do. They're afraid to take on Bush. I will end that. I've already done it, and I would start with ending the war in Iraq with 75 senators -- (off mike). (Cheers, applause.) 




 At the risk of hurting his reputation -- and it will hurt him -- but I would pick Chuck Hagel, and I'd consider asking Dick Lugar to be secretary of state. And I do have -- I do have a record of significant accomplishment. The crime bill, which became known as the Clinton crime bill, was written by Joe Biden, the Biden crime bill. That required me to cross over, get everyone together, not -- no one's civil liberties were in any way jeopardized. We put 100,000 cops on the street. Violent crime came down. The Violence against Women Act, what we did in Bosnia, and so on. So I have a track record of being able to cross over and get things done. And by the way, if you want to end all this money, support my effort to pass public financing of all elections. 

(APPLAUSE)


 Absolutely, positively. Look, I'm so tired of this. Let's get right to it. I heard the same arguments after I came back from meeting with Milosevic: We can't act; we can't send troops there. 

Where we can, America must. Why Darfur? Because we can.

We should now. Those kids will be dead by the time the diplomacy is over.

(APPLAUSE)

I'm not joking. I've been to that camp. I walked through that camp.

You know what happened when I landed?

When I landed and the dust settled, a young African aid worker came up to me
and he looked at me and he said, "Thank you. Thank you, America, for coming."

You don't understand -- they don't understand. They think we can save them.

And guess what? We can. Twenty-five hundred American troops -- if we do not
get the 21,000 U.N. troops in there -- can stop the genocide now. I have
called for a no-fly zone. Everybody agreed, but you need troops on the ground.


 Anderson, you've been there. You know we can't just pull out now. Let's get something straight. It's time to start to tell the truth. The truth of the matter is: If we started today, it would take one year, one year to get 160,000 troops physically out of Iraq, logistically. 

That's number one.

Number two, you cannot pull out of Iraq without the follow-on that's been
projected here, unless you have a political solution. I'm the only one that's
offered a political solution.

And it literally means separate the parties; give them jurisdiction in their
own areas; have a decentralized government, a federal system. No central
government will work.

And, thirdly, the fact of the matter is, the very thing everybody's quoting is
the very legislation I wrote in January. It said: Begin to draw down combat
troops now; get the majority of the combat troops out by March of '08.

There's not one person in here that can say we're going to eliminate all
troops...


 ... unless you're going to eliminate every physical person who's an American in Iraq. 


 Tell the truth for a change. 

(APPLAUSE)


 Number one, there is not a single military man in this audience who will tell this senator he can get those troops out in six months if the order goes today. 

Let's start telling the truth. Number one, you take all the troops out. You
better have helicopters ready to take those 3,000 civilians inside the Green
Zone where I have been seven times and shot at. You better make sure you have
protection for them, or let them die, number one.

So we can't leave them there. And it's going to take a minimum 5,000 troops to
10,000 just to protect our civilians. So while you're taking them out,
Governor, take everybody out. That may be necessary.

Number three, the idea that we all voted -- except for me -- for that
appropriation. That man's son is dead. For all I know, it was an IED. Seventy
percent of all the deaths occurred have been those roadside bombs. We have
money in that bill to begin to build and send immediately mine-resistant
vehicles that increase by 80 percent the likelihood none of your cadets will
die, General. And they all voted against it.

How in good conscience can you vote not to send those vehicles over there as
long as there's one single, solitary troop there?


 The principal of my high school, his name was Justin E. Dinney (ph). He was a priest, and he taught me that the single most serious sin humanity could commit was abuse of power, and the second most serious sin was standing by and watching it be abused. 

He was the brightest guy I have ever known.


 It was a mistake. I remember talking with Paul Wellstone at the time. And quite frankly, the reason I voted for it, against my better instinct, is I have great faith in Ted Kennedy, who is so devoted to education. 

But I would scrap it -- or I guess, theoretically, you could do a major
overhaul. But I think I'd start from the beginning.

You need better teachers. You need smaller classrooms. You need to start kids
earlier. It's all basic.


 My wife's been teaching for 30 years. She has her doctorate in education. She comes back and points out how it's just not working. 

The bottom line here is that I would fundamentally change the way in which we
approach this.


 My kids did go to private schools, because right after I got elected, my wife and daughter were killed. I had two sons who survived. My sister was the head of the history department. She was helping me raise my children at Wilmington Friends School. 


 When it came time to go to high school when they had come through their difficulties -- I'm a practicing Catholic -- it was very important to me they go to a Catholic school, and they went to a Catholic school. 

My kids would not have gone to that school were it not for the fact that my
wife and daughter were killed and my two children were under the care of my
sister who drove them to school every morning.


 Anderson... 


 I think the people of Tennessee just had their feelings hurt. 

(LAUGHTER)


 I'm Joe Biden and I approved this message. 

(APPLAUSE)

(END VIDEO CLIP)

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)


 I don't have Barack Obama money either. 

(LAUGHTER)

My net worth is $70,000 to $150,000. That's what happens you get elected at
29. I couldn't afford to stay in the Congress for the minimum wage. But if I
get a second job, I'd do it.

(LAUGHTER)


 First of all, change the tax structure. We are giving people tax breaks who don't need it. The top 1 percent got an $85 billion a year tax break. It is not needed. 

(APPLAUSE)

My dad used to have an expression -- don't tell me what you value; show me
your budget.

And the budget we have here is we all dance around it. We need more revenue to
be able to pay for the things the governor and everybody else talks about.

And there's only one way to do it. You either raise taxes or take tax cuts
away from people who don't need them. I'd take them away from people who don't
need them.

(APPLAUSE)


 Religion informs my values. 


 My reason dictates outcomes. My religion taught me about abuse of power. That's why I moved to write the Violence Against Women Act. That's why I take the position I take on Darfur. It came about as a consequence of the reasoning that we're able to do it. 

You know, look, I don't think they're inconsistent. I don't find anything
inconsistent about my deep, religious beliefs and my ability to use reason. I
think the coin's got it just right. I think I have it in perspective.


 I'll tell you what, if that is his baby, he needs help. 

(APPLAUSE)

I think he just made an admission against self-interest. I don't know that he
is mentally qualified to own that gun. I'm being serious. Look, just like me,
we go around talking about people who own guns. I am the guy who originally
wrote the assault weapons ban, that became law, and then we got defeated and
then Dianne Feinstein went to town on it and did a great job.


 Look, we should be working with law enforcement, right now, to make sure that we protect people against people who don't -- are not capable of knowing what to do with a gun because they're either mentally imbalanced and/or because they have a criminal record, and... 


 Anyway... 

(APPLAUSE)


 ... I hope he doesn't come looking for me. 

(LAUGHTER)

Before we do -- we've got one more question. Before we get to that, we're
going to play our last YouTube-style campaign video from the Obama campaign.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)


 I don't like a damn thing about him. I -- no, I'm only kidding. Only kidding. 

(LAUGHTER)

Dennis and I have been friends for 25 years. I think this is a ridiculous
exercise.

(LAUGHTER)

Dennis, the thing I like best about you is your wife.

(LAUGHTER)


 Look, I think he's a wonderful guy, to start off, number one. It was about Pakistan we were talking about. The fact of the matter is, Pakistan is the most dangerous, potentially the most dangerous country in the world. A significant minority of jihadists with nuclear weapons. We have -- and I disagree with all three of my friends -- we have a Pakistan -- we have no Pakistan policy; we have a Musharraf policy. That's a bad policy. The policy should be based upon a long-term relationship with Pakistan and stability. 

We should be encouraging free elections. There is an overwhelming majority of
moderates in that country. They should have their day. Otherwise, they're
going to go underground.


 I think I stand by the statement. 


 We were leaving Baghdad and it was pitch black. As I climbed into the C-130, strapped into the middle of that cargo bay was a flag-draped coffin. It turned that cargo bay into a cathedral. And all I could think of was the parents waiting at the other end. 

We must end this war in a way that doesn't require us to send their grandchild
back.

(END VIDEO CLIP)


 My reaction is that it's time to start to level with the American people. This administration hasn't been doing it for seven years. We should. 

The fact of the matter is, there's much more at stake in our security in the
region depending on how we leave Iraq.

If we leave Iraq and we leave it in chaos, there'll be regional war. The
regional war will engulf us for a generation. It'll bring in the Shia, it'll
bring in the Saudis, it'll bring in the Iranians, it'll bring in the Turks.

I laid out a plan a year ago with Leslie Gelb. It said that what we should do
is separate the parties, give them breathing room in order to establish some
stability.

I notice most of my colleagues are coming around to that plan these days. But
the bottom line is it's going to one full year, if you argued tomorrow to get
every single troop out.

And when you begin to take the troops out, what are you going to do with the
4,000 or 5,000 civilians that are left inside the Green Zone?


 I'll answer that, if I may. 


 Look, the fundamental disagreement I have with my colleagues up here is that they seem to cling to the fundamental strategic mistake that everyone on both sides plays to, and that is that there is any possibility in the lifetime of anyone here of having the Iraqis get together, have a unity government in Baghdad that pulls the country together. 

That will not happen, George. It will not happen in the lifetime of anyone
here.

Secondly, the point is that you have to separate the parties to give them
breathing room. You have to get them out of each other's face, just like we
did in the Balkans, the same exact thing.

Third piece I'd make to you is that there's much more at stake here. This war
must end, but there's much more at stake as to how it ends.


 If it ends with this country splintering, we will have, for a generation, our grandchildren, engaged in a regional war that will be consequential far beyond -- far beyond Iraq. 

America's security interests are at stake. You will see Turkey move in and
take on the Kurds. You will see the Iranians move in and pick sides among the
Shias. You will see Saudi Arabia and Syria continue to fund the most radical
extreme elements of the jihadis.


 They cannot be out by December... 


 Look, we've had 20,000 Western troops in a place where there's more sectarian violence -- from Vlad the Impaler to Milosevic -- than in 5,000 years of history in Iraq. 


 And what did we do? We separated the parties. There's not one single troop has been killed, not one, in the last 10 years. There is peace. There is a circumstance where the genocide is ended. They're becoming part of Europe. 

Every troop must be out over time if there is not a political agreement.


 But if there is a political -- yes. 


 I leave residual troops behind because you're going to have a minimum of 4,000 civilians there. The military will tell my friend here it takes... 

(CROSSTALK)


 ... it takes -- no, no, I'm not saying that. I'm not saying that. You need combat troops, and you need them to protect... 

(CROSSTALK)


 ... the 5,000 troops that are there. 


 George, my mom has an expression. She says that, "God sends no cross you're unable to bear." 


 The time to pray is to pray whether or not you're told, as John was and I was, that my wife and daughter are dead, to have the courage to be able to bear the cross. 

The time to pray is to pray not only before, but pray that you have the
courage, pray that God can give you the strength to deal with what everyone is
faced with in their life, serious crosses, serious crosses to bear.

The answer to the gentleman's question is, no, all the prayer in the world
will not stop a hurricane. But prayer will give you the courage to be able to
respond to the devastation that's caused in your life and with others to deal
with the devastation.


 In my public life, there hasn't been a time I haven't said what I thought. 

I'm sure there's times in my whole life I haven't said everything I've
thought, and many times that I've said too much of what I did think.

(LAUGHTER)

(APPLAUSE)

But my problem isn't saying what I think. My problem is saying too much about
what I think.

I honestly can't think of an issue in the United States Congress where I
haven't straightforwardly said why I was voting, why I was voting that way,
and I said it straight up.


 Tomorrow morning at 9 o'clock, my wife will walk into a classroom and teach for the 30th year in a row. 


 And the one thing any teacher can tell you is that the last person you want to base your performance on, judge your performance, is the administrator of the school. That's the first thing everybody figures out if you teach. 

There needs to be performance-based pay. The way to do it is start at the
front end. Pay those people who perform in undergraduate school. Give them the
alternative to be able to go. They'd get the same pay as an engineer gets to
go in and work in a math student -- as a math teacher, as a science teacher,
et cetera.

So you start performance-based pay by, in fact, paying the best- performing
students who want to teach and give them a chance. Every other major country
in the world is starting their kids at the same salary they start -- these
students, the same salary they start their engineers. We should be able to do
that.

My father used to say, "Don't tell me what you value; show me your budget." If
you, in fact, value education, then it should be equally as important as
engineering or anything else.

(APPLAUSE)


 The answer is yes. But we need, as the governor says, more transparency, particularly with regard to hedge funds and private equity funds. They are the ones that are causing this thing to go under. And there's no transparency, no accountability. We don't know how deep this problem is. 

Chris will take care of it in the Banking Committee, and I mean that
sincerely.

But we don't know how deep this problem is. But I think it's much deeper. It's
almost as deep in terms of dollars, not liability, as the savings and loan
crisis.


 George, there's a lot of things in my life that led me to be engaged in politics. I worked in the African-American community, east side of my city, as the only white employee for a long while when I was a kid. And I got involved in the civil rights movement. 

I thought the question was, what made me run for president.


 Well, the decisive moment in me life that put me on the broader path was the civil rights movement. When I really -- I found out and realized that it does make a difference if you're engaged. You actually can change people's lives. You can actually change the state of the nation. 


 Tim, we're begging the question here. Everyone says there's no political -- there's no military solution, only a political solution. We offered a political solution today, and it got 75 votes. And it said -- it rejected fundamentally the president's position that there's a possibility of establishing a strong central government in Iraq and said we're going to have a federal system, bring in the rest of the world to support establishing a federal system. That will end the civil war. That will allow us to bring our troops home. That is the thing that will allow us to come home without leaving chaos behind. 

Now, here's the deal. The deal is that to say that you are going to bring all
troops home from the region -- I assume that's what you mean --


 Just from Iraq. You're going to bring all troops home from Iraq. If in fact there is no political solution by the time I am president, then I would bring them out because all they are is fodder. 

But -- but -- if you go along with the Biden plan that got 75 votes today and
you have a stable Iraq like we have in Bosnia -- we've had 20,000 Western
troops in Bosnia for 10 years. Not one has been killed -- not one. The
genocide has ended. So it would depend on the circumstances when I became
president.


 I would make a commitment to have them all out if there is not a political reconciliation, because they're just fodder. 


 Tim, can I make a clarification, please? 


 What we voted on was not partition. I don't want anybody thinking it was partition. And it's the only time we got 26 Republicans to reject the president's -- 

(Cross talk.)


 No, it's not. 


 The reason that cities ignore the federal law is the fact that there is no funding at the federal level to provide for the kind of enforcement at the federal level you need. 

Pick up The New York Times today. There's a city not far across the river from
my state that imposed similar sanctions. And what they found out is, as a
consequence of that, their city went in the dumps -- in the dumpster; stores
started closing, everything started to happen, and they changed the policy.

Part of the problem is you have to have a federal government that can enforce
laws. This administration's been fundamentally derelict in not funding any of
the requirements that are needed even to enforce the existing law.

And the last point I'll make is Rudy Giuliani doesn't know what the heck he's
talking about. He's the most uninformed person on American foreign policy now
running for president -- (cheers, applause) -- number one.

And number two, these guys -- these -- anyway. (Laughter.) MS. KING: But yes
or no.


 I wish I'd get to talk about something I know about like foreign policy. You gotta count me in in this debate a little bit. 


 No. 


 No, what is means is that in order to get health care, you're going to have to be able to persuade at least 15 percent of the Republicans to vote for it. 


 I think it's going to be more difficult -- unfairly, but I think it's more difficult for Hillary. Hillary, because she has battled the special interests, and she has, but look at the special interests. The special interests, with regard to Hillary, they feed on this, you know, this Clinton-Bush thing. 

It's not Hillary's fault. But the fact of the matter is, it's much more
difficult to go out and convince a group of Republicans, I would argue,
getting something done that is of a major consequence.

I have experience doing that. I did it on the crime bill, I did it on --
today, the first time we rejected -- fundamentally rejected the president's
policy. And I'm not suggesting it's Hillary's fault. I think it's a reality
that it's more difficult, because there's a lot of very good things that come
with all the great things that President Clinton did. But there's also a lot
of the old stuff that comes back. It's kind of hard. When I say "old stuff,"
I'm referring to policy -- policy.


 The answer is yes. I'm probably the only one up here who's going to say that. But the truth of the matter is, you've stated it. You're either going to cut benefits or you're going to go ahead and raise taxes above the first $97,000. 

And by the way, I was in that room with Pat Moynihan. It was Joe Biden, Pat
Moynihan, Bob Dole -- it was also George Mitchell -- when we made that deal.
I'll never forget Bob Dole turning to Pat Moynihan and saying, we all got to
jump in this boat at the same time.

So the bottom line here is, you can't do it by growing the economy alone. So I
would raise the cap.


 Well, we did that once, I supported that. That's what got it solvent to 2041. By simply going and taking -- raising the cap, you can solve the problem. 


 No, no, I'm with you. 


 Thanks for invoking my name. 


 I would ban -- yes. I would ban -- and all publicly, nationally. And one other point I want to make on this -- 


 Absolutely no, I would not. You've got to calculate the cost here. The cost of alcoholism in America, the cost of accidents that flow from drunkenness, are astronomical. There are 300,000 babies born deformed every year in this country because of women who are alcoholics while they're carrying those children to term. 

Ladies and gentlemen, this is a gigantic problem, just like the drug issue.
And the idea that we're going to suggest that it makes good sense to move the
age down to 18 I find to be counterproductive. I would not do that.

And the last point I'll make is, presidents are supposed to lead. How do you
go out and negotiate, use health care and the Social Security system as a
negotiating tool to deal with the federal deficit? You're supposed to lead.
You lay out what you want to do. You're not negotiating with yourself, you're
negotiating to protect the system. And you can't use the system as a
negotiating tool to get to a balanced budget any more than you can turn around
and suggest that somehow lowering the drinking age to 18 is going to make
anything better in America. Anything.


 I don't think they've changed politics. 


 Well, the -- on some things, yes. I mean, look, you can -- I don't think you can castigate them for the ad, I think. But the idea that I was initially told -- I'm going to get in trouble for this, but -- that the quote, "It's their party" -- they're part of the party. It's not their party. 


 No, I would not. And I met, up here in New Hampshire, with 17 three- and four-star generals who, after my making a speech at Drake Law School, pointing out I would not under any circumstances sanction torture, I thought they were about to read me the riot act. 


 Seventeen of our four-star, three-star generals said, 

Biden, will you make a commitment you will never use torture? It does not
work. It is part of the reason why we got the faulty information on Iraq in
the first place is because it was engaged in by one person who gave whatever
answer they thought they were going to give in order to stop being tortured.
It doesn't work. It should be no part of our policy ever -- ever.


 Question, Tim, did you say pardon, as well? 

I'd pardon the son of a gun, if I got an atom bomb.


 OK. Well, I would pardon -- I would not torture, but if I thought I'd get the hydrogen bomb this guy had planted, I'd say, Man, you're out. And then I'd figure out how he got taken care of later. But I would... 

(LAUGHTER)

... I would pardon him.


 I'd pardon him, not torture. Not torture. 


 Oh, did the torture. No, no, no. 


 I thought you meant pardon the... 


 Christ's warning of the Pharisees. There are many Pharisees, and it's part of what has bankrupted some people's view about religion. And I worry about the Pharisees. 


 I was raised in Scranton, Pennsylvania, by a grandfather, if you weren't a Yankees fan you didn't eat. Yankees. 

(LAUGHTER)


 With all due respect with anybody who thinks that pressure brought this about, let's get this straight. In 2003, they stopped their program. 

You cannot trust this president. He is not trustworthy. He has undermined our
security in the region. He has undermined our credibility in the world. He has
made it more difficult to get cooperation from the rest of the world.

He has caused oil to go up roughly $25 a barrel, with a security premium,
because of his threat of war.

It is outrageous, intolerable, and it must stop. The president of the United
States -- it was like watching a rerun of his statements on Iraq five years
earlier.

This -- Iran is not a nuclear threat to the United States of America. Iran
should be dealt with directly with the rest of the world at our side. But
we've made it more difficult now because who is going to trust us?

Who in Europe, who in China, who in Russia?


 It's outrageous. 


 No, I wanted to talk about this issue. As chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, I'm the only one at this table -- for the last four years, I've been laying out concrete alternatives to the Bush administration's policy. 

The vote -- what everybody misunderstands, in my humble opinion, is the vote
to declare the Quds Force and the Revolutionary Guard a terrorist organization
was not a view that could be established without question, number one.

Number two, it is self-defeating. The moment that declaration was made, oil
prices jumped over $18 a barrel. The moment that declaration was made, every
one of our friends, from Iraq to Pakistan, felt they had to distance
themselves from us because it appears to be a war on Islam.


 With all due respect to my colleagues, with the exception of Senator Dodd, they're not connecting the dots here. This matters and there's no evidence -- none, zero... 


 ... that this declaration caused any change in action on the part of the Iranian government. 


 By the way, terminology matters. I'm a great admirer of Senator Clinton. It's not about not advocating a rush to war. I'm advocating no war. A rush to war means that war, taken slowly, going slowly, is possible. I'm advocating no war, no justification for war. 

Number two.


 The reason why -- the reason why we are disliked so much is because we are trusted so little. The reason why we are disliked so much, obviously -- I'm not talking about Al Qaida, I'm talking about the 1.2 billion Muslims in the world who look at us, and when we say and do things as we're talking about now with Iran, conclude that this is a war on Islam. 


 I'll make one point. When we went into Afghanistan, the word was the Arab street would rise up. We did it the right way. The Arab street knew that Arabs -- the Muslims in Al Qaida were bad guys, they supported us. 

When we do things that don't sound rational to them, it undercuts our
legitimacy, we have no legitimacy.


 Clarity. Prevention, not preemption. An absolute repudiation of this president's doctrine which has only three legs on the stool. One, push the mute button, don't talk to anybody. Two, preemption. And three, regime change. 

I would reject all three. We need a doctrine of prevention. The role of a
great power is to prevent the crises.

And we don't have to imagine any of the crises. We know what's going to happen
on day one when you're president. You have Pakistan, Russia, China, the
subcontinent of India. You have Afghanistan. You have Darfur.

And it requires engagement, engagement and prevention. That does not rule out
the use of force. It incorporates the notion of prevention. Prevention.


 Well... 


 With the WTO guidelines, we could stop these products coming in now. This president doesn't act. We have much more leverage on China than they have on us. 

Let's get something straight here. We're making them into 10 feet tall. It
took them 30 years to get 20 percent of their population out of poverty.
They've got 800 million people in poverty. They're in real distress.

The idea that a country with 800 million people in poverty has greater
leverage over us is preposterous.

What it is, is we've yielded to corporate America. We've yielded to this
president's notion of what constitutes trade. And we've refused to enforce the
laws that exist.

As president, I would end, flat, bang, no importation of those toys. Why?
Under WTO, you're allowed to do it until you send inspectors to guarantee.


 Why aren't they doing it? Corporate America... 


 No, I'm not willing to go there. You don't need to start a tariff war. All you have to do is enforce the law, enforce the law. 


 Exactly right. 


 You can't ensure it. But, look, this is all about playing by the rules. I have been pushing, as chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, for the last seven years -- or of the ranking member during that period -- that we hold China accountable at the United Nations. 

We won't even, at the United Nations -- we won't even designate China as a
violator of human rights.

Now, what's the deal there? We're talking about competition. That's the -- in
terms of trade. It's capitulation, not competition.

Name me another country in the world that we would allow to conduct themselves
the way this country has, China, and not call them to -- on the carpet at the
U.N.

Name me another country in the world who would use the trade practices they
use with us that we would not call them on the carpet.


 Absolutely. 


 And the reason I would is that it's the one way to get China to reform. You can't close your eyes. You can't pretend. It is self-defeating. It's a Hobson's choice we're giving people here. 


 Look, first of all, I don't buy this being -- why you're being so tough on China. Would we do any of these things with regard to France or Germany or England, our friends, our allies? The answer is: We would. 


 No, I think it is not. 

Look, if France was acting like China is acting, we'd be tough with them. If
England was doing what China is doing we'd be tough with them. This is about
being fair.

And by the way, to deal with the currency, back in '88, we had the same deal.
And what happened, we had a thing called the Plaza Accords. We brought in all
of the major currencies in the world to sit down and say we've got to
rationalize the currency here.

Us doing it by ourselves is the ultimate blunt instrument.

We may be able to do that. But were I president, I'd be calling a similar
conference, bringing in the rest of the world to rationalize our currencies
here.


 I'd like to make a distinction here. And I agree with Hillary on this. What Amy, as I understood the question, is doing is providing a service there to children. 

There's 1.8 million children here.


 Well, I just assumed she was talking about children. There's a distinction, quite frankly, between providing a service and providing for you being able to make money by hiring someone you can hire cheaply in order to be able to make your business grow. I find a moral distinction there, number one. 

Number two, as a single parent for five years, after my wife and daughter were
killed, raising two kids -- I went through, out of necessity, trying to figure
out how to get a nanny to help me out. Thank god I had my sister and my
mother.

But I went through that, to try to relieve them.

Guess what? Most of the illegals that came to seek a job with me, they did not
speak Spanish. They were from Ireland, England. They were from Germany. They
were from Poland.

The majority of the people here undocumented, 60 percent, are not Spanish
speaking. They've overstayed their visas.


 Well, Chris tells me they are. The data I received was that the total amount of people who are here undocumented, and the people overstaying their visas, were people who are not from Latin America. 

Chris knows more about this than...


 But the point is, the idea here is that it seems to me there's an obligation on the part of an employer who is seeking someone to work for him or her to know whether or not that opportunity is being given first to an American, before they hire someone here who is legal or illegal -- I mean, excuse me, who is illegal. I mean... 


 Did not hire one. Absolutely not. 


 I found -- I didn't find anyone. I thank God for my sister. 

And by the way, you may remember, I'm the guy that reminded the former
administration that Zoe Baird was a little bit of a problem, if you may
remember.


 Look, I've been working with this for a long time, as former chairman of the Judiciary Committee -- that's where it comes out of. We have it about right now, except that the employers aren't doing their part. 

You used the example of an Indian engineer who'd work less than an American
engineer. The truth is they're not allowed to hire based on that.

They got offered the job. If there's American there that will take the job,
they can't undercut it by hiring an Indian engineer who will work for less.
That's illegal. We're not enforcing it.

The second point I'd make is, you know, we make this all out to be so black
and white. I'm the author of the Violence Against Women Act. It came to my
attention not long -- it's relevant, believe it or not.

What happened? Immigrant women getting the living crap beat out of them;
getting brutalized -- brutalized. And they're afraid to come forward and
acknowledge they're being brutalized because they'll be deported.

So what we have to do, sometimes humanitarian needs trump -- trump immigration
laws. So what did I do? I changed the law. My colleagues all voted for it.

It's now the law that a woman who comes forward of being beaten will be
effectively immune from being deported so you can put the SOB who's beating
her in jail.

So sometimes it trumps.

Sometimes humanitarian needs trump an existing law relating to immigration
like that.


 Yes, it will change our culture. But they'll speak English. Like every other large wave of immigrants, once they are bond with the second generation, they'll all be speaking English. 

What's the fear here? Give me an example where that hasn't happened.


 Stop bragging. 


 I know exactly what I'd do on those foreign policy issues, but, quite frankly, I think the toughest choice for me, the thing I'm most unsure about is how you rationalize competition in trade policy. 

I think that's the single most difficult challenge that I will have as
president.


 They have ballooned the deficit with their bad priorities. 


 The short term -- by the way, the Defense Department's gigantic, it's not just the war in Iraq. Over the period of the first four years, I think all of us are going to try to get all the troops out of there. I think I can do it in the first year. 

But the point is this: We shouldn't buy into this Republican paradigm, to use
the fancy word my conservative friends use, and that is that the idea -- they
built this deficit up, the Republicans, in order to make it difficult to do
the things we need to do. And we need to deal with health care, we need to
deal with these things.

And just list a few things.


 You can take $20 billion a year out of the Defense Department just by eliminating weapons systems; not building the new atomic weapon, not building Star Wars. 

You can, in fact, cut -- you can put more into the government by close to $150
billion. And tax cuts going to people who don't need them will not affect the
economy, and they didn't ask for them.

So you can pay for every one of these initiatives. But, as my dad used to say,
it's all about priorities. What are your priorities?

I would fundamentally change the Republican priorities of rewarding only the
wealthy, wasteful government programs in the Defense Department, as well as
dealing with a more rational policy to promote jobs.


 Yes. 

Entitlements will be a problem if we don't act. But the solutions are within
our capacity.

Social Security is an entitlement program. By lifting the cap in Social
Security, it'll be solvent as long as any young person in this auditorium, no
matter how young they are, number one.

Number two, Hillary touched the points about Medicare. Medicare, in fact, it's
cost. It's not new benefits, it's cost.


 And the whole idea there is that the combination of the $10 billion we're overpaying HMOs a year, the combination of prescription drug costs being able to be negotiated by the federal government for Medicare, and the combination of modernizing the system so you deal with chronic disease and others which it's estimated we could save over $100 billion a year in Medicare -- in Medicare, if we'd made all these modernizations and changes. 

So it is within our capability to do it. The question is, you got to act. And
this is all about action. And I think they're totally within our capacity to
do both of those things.


 We should hold them accountable. Every new trade agreement -- and I voted against them all since CAFTA, including CAFTA -- every new trade agreement should have built into it what we all talk about. We talk about environmental standards and labor standards, but we talk about it in terms of preserving jobs here, which is important. But it's also about human rights. 

How are we possibly helping a third world country, a developing country by
signing an agreement with them knowing that they're going to exploit workers,
they're going to exploit their own citizenry either with -- by polluting their
lungs or their drinking water and/or putting them in a position where they're
getting paid a couple bucks a week?


 So it should be a condition to every trade agreement that we engage in. 


 Well, you know, folks talk about this election being about experience or change. It's really about action and pragmatic solutions. And that's what I've done my whole career with the Violence Against Women Act, the crime bill, the Balkans, helping stop the genocide there. 

And, ladies and gentlemen, you know, leadership is also about knowing who you
are, what you believe, and what your priorities are, and what you'll do. In my
case, I'll start by ending that war in Iraq.

And also trust the American people. They're ready. They're ready to get up.

There's a hymn in my church -- our church, some of us here -- that says, "May
he raise you up on eagle's wings and bear you on the breath of dawn and let
the light shine on you." It's time to raise this country up. The American
people are genuinely ready to do that.


 It'll take -- to begin it, it won't take long at all. We should increase the mileage for automobiles, require it. We should make sure that every new car sold in America beginning in 2009 is a flex-fuel automobile. We should be investing a great deal more in cellulosics research, because corn ethanol is not going to take us the whole way. 

But the bottom line is: You got to make it a fundamental priority. You got to
say that we are going to make a major change.


 And that requires a significant investment in alternative energy, renewable energy, moving from 2 percent to 20 percent by the end of this next decade, in 2020. 

But the bottom line here is, the president's got to make this a moral crusade
for the American people. We're going to have to sacrifice to be able to get
by, and for the next couple of years, in order to be able to get a handle on
the energy crisis.


 I would have voted for it. Look, you know, one of the interesting things, the first time I ever came out to Iowa was with Senator Culver on his first campaign in '74. 

And one thing seems different now. You ride across this magnificent state and
you see so much open land -- and so few farmers. It's kind of fascinating.

You know, you'd think you'd see a farmhouse every, you know, 800 acres or so.
But the irony is, this is all about: How do you preserve family farmers? Only
550,000 of them left.


 And if you continue the system the way it is, it's breaking the system. It's going to just flat break the system. 

And the cost of, you know, the cost of an acreage has gone up with these
excessive payments -- the fact that we're not focusing on the things which the
farm program started out to focus on, helping farmers in distress and being
the balance -- the ballast when the market was out of whack.

It's gotten all -- it's gotten all out of whack. And so it seems to me that we
need a radical change. Tom is working hard on that. But I would have voted for
it, and I voted for the -- I voted today the same way Barack and all the rest
of us did to maintain -- to lower the caps. And...


 Well, the reason my wife's not here today is she's teaching. She's been teaching and she teaches full-time. And she has her doctorate in education. 

But you don't need a doctorate in education to know there's four things
everybody out there knows we have to do.


 Every parent knows it intuitively. Got to start kids at school earlier. You got to put them in smaller classes; the smaller the class, the better the outcome. 

In order to do that, you need 100,000 more teachers. You got to pay teachers.
In this economy, you have six out of 10 going into teaching leaving within
five years because the pay's not competitive. And, lastly, you got to provide
access to college, and that costs money. And we can easily pay for it. It's
about our priorities.


 I'm going to call the Joint Chiefs of Staff in and tell them to implement the Biden plan, which the United States Senate voted overwhelmingly for to end the war in Iraq, and the Congress is about to vote for it, as well -- and most international leaders have endorsed it. 

Secondly, I would, in my inaugural address, make it clear to the world that we
are abandoning the Bush policy with regard to torture, the Bush policy with
regard to renditions, the Bush policy with regard to holding prisoners.

And, thirdly, I believe by picking things Americans value most and we can
undertake -- take on the interest groups the quickest on, I would insure every
single child in America, provide catastrophic health insurance for every child
in America before the first year is out on the way to universal health care.


 And, lastly, I would in fact implement the preschool education proposal that I have here to get it done. I think I'd get that done in the first year. 


 I think he's colorblind. I don't -- I'm really not sure. 

(LAUGHTER)


 I think that I have my whole career, I got involved in public policy, I got involved in politics because of the civil rights movement. It's the overwhelming core of my support in my home state. I get the overwhelming majority, over 95 percent of the vote of minorities in my state. 

I may have phrased those things wrongly, but when I talked about the Indian
population what I was making the point was they're building families, they're
coming buying businesses, 7-Elevens and Dunkin' Donuts and small shops, just
like those Italian immigrants used to do, and they're building families.


 The point I was making about inner-city Washington was a point that Barack just made. Barack made the point -- he said that minorities start off at a disadvantage. They start off with a gap, and achievement gap that exist before they even walk into school -- minorities. 

And so I was making the same point. It may be possible because I speak so
bluntly that people misunderstand. But no one who knows me in my state, no one
who I've worked with in the United States Congress has ever wondered about my
commitment to civil rights and civil liberties.

And if you take a look at my record as chairman of the Foreign Relations
Committee -- excuse me, of the Judiciary Committee -- ranking member and
chairman for 16 years. Starting with the Voting Rights Act and worked us right
through to voting against Constitutional Amendments on bussing, when bussing
was taking place in my state.

My credentials are as good as anyone who's ever run for president of the
United States on civil rights.


 I make the same one every year: remember where I came from. 

You know, everything can -- your whole life can change in a split second.
Things are always beyond your control.


 And I just -- I, every year, make a resolution to try to remember what it was like when things were really bad, so that I enjoy -- treat my family, treat my colleagues, treat everybody the way they should be treated when things are good. 

But just remember. Remember where you came from.


 Iowa deserves to be first, and the reason they do is because they take it so seriously. 


 I've never met a group of people whether in Mokokonah (ph) or Shenandoah or up in the north; wherever you are, people take it seriously. And you always treat us with respect. 

I've never walked out of a place without someone, even who's not for me,
saying, "Thank you for coming, Senator." You deserve to be first, and without
you, this democracy is in trouble because it would all go to money.


