 I think it's obviously a national security problem, but you have to understand what national security is. The Constitution defines it as securing the blessings of liberty. It has to do with the security of our people. If you want to secure the blessings of liberty for the American people, you cut off the spigot that funds the political ambitions of our leaders by abolishing the income tax and restoring control of 100% of their income to the American worker. That means you replace it with a fair tax system that puts the American people in control of their money. By doing that you will encourage the politicians to stop spending to fund their little political cliques and only limit their spending to what produces results for the American people. 


 That's one of those let's you and him fight questions that people in the media always want to get us involved in because they would like to pretend that the tax question is about fighting amongst ourselves, when the real sacrifice that's required from the American people, we need to start sacrificing some of these incumbents who have funded their political ambition using our money.


 Who have spent overboard into the deficits after promising us on the Republican side that they would limit the government and then produce the highest budget deficits in the history of our country. I think we need to stop listening to these phonies and start looking for people who will actually fulfill the words that they speak. That's what I think.


 Well, what I think is that a lot of folks out there ought to understand that what you're watching represents the situation in our country. Ask yourself who represents the people they don't let you hear from, and you'll know who you should vote for in the Iowa caucuses. Who represents the voice that they're absolutely determined to overlook in the discussion of our sovereignty and the betrayal of this people's sovereignty? On the border, on our moral principles, on the major export overseas, which is our jobs, these folks represent the very elite who year after year after year have destroyed our Constitution, betrayed our rights, and undermined our strength created by our people in the world. 


 Mostly I would have to say I'm in favor –


 I'm in favor of reducing global warming because I think the most important emission we need to control is the hot air emission of the politicians who pretend one thing and don't deliver.

Absolutely.

Doctor, heal thyself.

(All speaking at once)

(Laughter)


 Excuse me, do I have to raise my hand? I'd like to address that question.


 No, you're not. You haven't in several go rounds, so I have to make an issue out of it. I would like to address the issue of education.


 I don't wish it to pass on –


 They have a minute. Why do I get thirty seconds? See, your unfairness is now becoming so apparent that the voters in Iowa must understand there's a reason for it, and the reason is what I'm about to say. Governor Huckabee just addressed the question of education. He has stood before values voters and moral conservatives, claiming that he is their spokesman. Do you know the major problem in American education today? We allowed the judges to drive God out of our schools. We allowed the moral foundation of this republic, which is that we are created equal and endowed by our Creator, not by our Constitution or our leaders with our rights. If we don't teach our children that heritage and the moral culture that goes along with it, we cannot remain free. They will not be disciplined to learn science, to learn math, to learn history, to learn anything. And they don't want to talk about this, except when they're squabbling about their own personal faith and forgetting that we have a national creed. And that national creed needs to be taught to our children so that whether they are scientists or businessmen or lawyers, they will stand on the solid ground of a moral education that gives them the discipline they need to serve the right, to exercise their freedom with dignity, and to defend justice because they understand it is our heritage.


 What I would concentrate on is restoring the sovereignty of the people of this country. I would restore their moral sovereignty, which is something I think I can do very simply by declaring that no action taken by the executive branch would support, aid, or abet anyone who is destroying the constitutional rights of those who are in the womb. I would sign an executive order to that effect day one, and we would reestablish this government's commitment to the constitutional rights of our posterity. Folks talk about our posterity, but you can't really respect them if you're killing them in the womb. It doesn't make any sense. And I would also want to abolish the income tax. You say it can't be done in a day. We need to start talking about it and talking about actually implementing the far tax proposal that will end the wasteful spending by putting them under the discipline of a people who can actually withhold their taxes by changing the patterns of spending. And finally, I would establish a national border guard. I would seal the borders of the United States so that only those would cross our borders who are subject to our laws and the terms of those laws –


 And I would encourage through this national border guard a real respect for the security that must be maintained along that border if we're serious about the war on terror.


 I think that the critical thing is what you need to do. If you really want to see a change in government, then we need to restore the credibility of the Republican Party, a credibility that has been destroyed by the betrayal of promises to keep government limited that resulted in outrageously high budget deficits at an historic level in this country. The betrayal along the border with the President telling us that he suddenly discovered we didn't have a secure border six years into his term. And if you want to accomplish that, join the political army of America's revival at alankeyes.com and make sure you become part of that change. We're not going to restore self-government until you become an active people not willing to take the inadequate choices you have, but lifting up the choice that this country needs.


 I think the most important thing is to be absolutely authentic about who you are, not to say things today that contradict what you were two years ago like, sadly, Governor Romney. Not to take a stand on the most important issue of principle that faces our nation today, the question of whether we are created equal, and endowed by our Creator, not the Constitution but our God, with our inalienable rights from the womb to the tomb, and not to abandon the heritage of the Republican party, as Rudy Giuliani would do and as I could not follow him in doing, so I would not support him if he were nominated. And finally, I think it would be important to do what I'm doing in my campaign. We have three phone calls every week. People from all over the country gather online to talk to me, to interact, state their views. We have technologies now that allow people directly to communicate to their leadership, and I would make good use of those technologies.


 I, frankly, think the most important New Year's resolution is the one I'd suggest to the American people: resolve to return to your respect for the principle that makes us free, that we are all created equal and endowed by God with our inalienable rights.

 Now, I wouldn't want to seem to be the fellow who's going to speak up in defense of our absent colleagues here. 

But I think it is a little unfair to assume that they didn't show up tonight
because they were sending a message of some negative kind to the Black
community, for the very obvious reason that they didn't show up at the Values
Voters Debate, either -- which, of course, sent a very negative message to the
people who are interested in the issues that were discussed there.

Do you know what these two debates do have in common though? The Values Voters
Debate was the first debate I was included in. And this is the second debate
I'm included in.

I've been barred from the debate in Michigan, for reasons best known to the
party there. And what do you want to make of that? The other guys will show up
there.

Now, that suggests that they may or may not be afraid of all Black people, but
there seems to be at least one Black person they're afraid of.

And I think the reason -- the reason that they have this fear is pretty
evident. They don't believe that it's possible to address a significant
portion of the Black community...


 ... on the basis of solid Republican principles, and I do. 


 I would hope that the most important legacy of my administration would be to remind people that in spite of all the talk, I don't believe there is this deep divide between Blacks and whites in America. 

I believe that we are, in fact, part of one nation and one community, and that
we stand together right now in danger of our rights, because the core of that
community is not race; the core of that community is not money. The core of
that community is the moral consensus that we are all created equal and
endowed by our creator, God, with our unalienable rights that we have the
right in our policies and in our laws to honor and respect the creator, God.

And as a practical matter, I would want to see that unity, that moral
understanding restored where it is most important -- in the education of our
young by adopting an approach to education that empowers every parent in this
country to send their children to schools that reflect their faith and
values...


 ... so that the Black community can re-instill moral, community-based schools that reflect their Christian beliefs. 


 I have to say I think the most important factor in all of this does have something to do with policies that had an impact on race, but it was the disproportionately destructive impact that a lot of government programs had on the moral foundations and family structure in the Black community. 

You talk about folks finding job opportunities. You know where a lot of Black
men find job opportunities these days? In prison.

And that is something that reflects the reality that when you allow the family
to break down, when you have government regulations that drive the father from
the home, you have established the conditions for the upbringing of children
to be nonproductive, to be violent, to be turned in directions that will be
destructive of their economic future.

And when you add to that the promotion of a culture of promiscuity, a culture
of selfish hedonism, that leads people not to understand that that marriage
partnership is the most important foundation of any real economic life, then
you have especially destroyed the Black community.

And I believe the disproportionate impact of these negative things...


 ... has accounted for a lot of these bad results. 


 Well, I think, especially in this context, it's important to remember a number of things. The border is a matter of security, first of all. And we have to make sure that we control it, or no laws we pass have any significance. People will still cross on their own terms. 

So the very first priority has to be to get back control. But we also have to
remember why we lost control, because these elites who have been under the
thumb of certain corporate interests have an interest in cheapening the price
of labor in America.

Do you want to know who's first hurt by that cheapened price of labor?

Black folks are first hurt, as they've been hurt in the rebuilding of New
Orleans, in the rebuilding of other parts of the United States that were
affected by those hurricanes. It's time we stopped fooling around with this
issue.

I think people, including a lot of the Black liberals, are more worried about
what we do with illegal immigrants than they've ever been about the impact of
illegal immigration on Black Americans who have been in this country all
along. I'm sick of seeing it.


 Well, I've always favored, and if you look at a book I wrote some years back called "Masters of the Dream," there was a proposal in it that was part of a package of what we need to do to restore real local self-government, which in our case would be neighborhood self-government in a lot of our urban areas. 

One of the features of that neighborhood government would be the reinstitution
of what were called in the old days things like justices of the peace.

They were people who lived in the community, came out of the community, were
empowered to judge offenses committed by folks who were in and lived in that
community so that there would be sensitivity to the truth that you're not just
dealing with crooks.

Sometimes you're dealing with young people who, if you treat them in the right
way, can be put on a path that will be constructive instead of destructive.

But only the people who live in the community would understand that. So they
need to have justices of the peace. They need to have judges who come from
amongst them.

The other thing I would do is I would make sure when people were in prison and
they were being paroled, that you had to consult the community and make a
deal. The community would agree to receive that person back, but they would
also promise to help that person to establish a decent life.

So, that community partnership would be restored.


 I think the most important thing to remember about Washington, D.C., is that it was established to be a unique representation of the whole people of the United States. 

That's a city that's supposed to belong to the nation, not to any one group
and not to any one region. That's why it was put together in the first place.

I think it's terribly important to maintain that symbol of the unity of our
country. We're a free people. If folks don't want to live in the conditions
that prevail in Washington because of its unique status, they can go to
Maryland. A whole bunch of folks have done so.

They can go to Virginia. A whole bunch of folks have done so. Some of the
biggest churches and everything else now exist in Prince George's County,
because people left the District.

They have that right, and I think that they can exercise it. But I think that
the country is entitled to have this possession that symbolizes our whole
united people, standing together as one community. I think it's terribly
important that we sustain it.


 I think two things are important, very briefly. 

First, before I would think about bringing back the family doctor,
particularly where the Black community is concerned, it might be helpful to
bring back the family.

And that would mean that you are going to do what is necessary to support
married couples, to encourage marriage, to encourage the rearing of children
in the context of a two-parent household.

Not because one is disparaging one-parent households, but because the
statistics show that people are more likely to sustain their education, to be
in better health, both mentally and physically, if they are raised in that
environment.

That's step number one, and I think it's vitally important.

The second step is we all know that in America these days, your ability to
have access to health care depends on -- what? -- primarily: your job and
whether or not you're able to get that insurance at your job.

So the first thing we need to take care of is to make sure that in areas where
Black folks and Hispanics and others are living, you are encouraging the kind
of entrepreneurship that will create jobs in those areas...


 ... to give people that foundation of health care access. 


 I think the most important thing to remember is that our efforts in Iraq and elsewhere right now that followed in the wake of September 11 aren't an effort to defend Black people, white people, Jewish people, Christian people, et cetera. 

They're an effort to defend the United States of America from a deep and
terrible threat that came against us in disregard of the fundamental -- the
fundamental moral principle that is supposed to govern all international
affairs, all wars that are conducted by countries, and that is that you do not
consciously target innocent human life.

My father was a soldier -- fought in Korea and Vietnam and World War II, did
not stand in defense of this race or that, but stood in defense of the common
principles of moral decency and justice that are derived from that premise
that I talked about, that our rights come from God.

I don't think it's hard to ask anybody in this country to stand in defense of
those principles.

My one criticism? I think unfortunately, President G.W. Bush put a lot of
emphasis on democracy for people in Iraq, when our real goal is security for
people in America.


 I have to say I'm appalled by the suggestion that we retreat into some kind of fortress America and forget who we are. We are a nation of nations, a people of many peoples. We are in touch with every people on the face of the Earth. If somebody is being hurt somewhere in the world, somebody in America grieves for them. 

And I don't believe we can turn our backs on that universal significance, that
universal mission.

I think a lot of suggestions made here in terms of how we get involved are
good ones. We don't have to send troops, but we need to support and reinforce
the sense of local, regional responsibility...


 ... for both humanitarian and military order in that region. 


 I support the death penalty. I think it has a basis in universal justice that isn't just about deterrence and all that, it's about respect for life. It's about making sure that we don't send the signal, especially where Black killers are concerned, because we do understand, don't we, that they mostly kill Black folks. 

And I wouldn't want to send the message that when you kill another Black human
being, we somehow don't take that seriously. We'll cheapen the significance of
that by not applying the understanding that when you cold-bloodedly and
calculatively take another human life, more has (inaudible) you than more than
all can take.

We can only dispatch you to the ruler of us all so that he may ultimately
judge you for your misdeeds.





