 I'm Jim Gilmore, the former governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia, former chairman of the National Commission for the United States Government on Terrorism and Weapons of Mass Destruction. 


 Well, you know, I think the people who are in Congress who are responsible for sending this country to war, with the enormous dangers that it has geopolitically and strategically, ought to read at least that kind of material. I know they get a lot of stuff and they can't read everything. 

But you know what, Wolf, I think the true business is this. The interest of
the United States is in creating as much stability as possible in the Middle
East. There is a very great danger to this country. Our interests in Israel,
our interests in energy, and in other ways there's a giant danger of the
Middle East becoming an unstable place.

Saddam Hussein was unstable, and so taking him out was good there, but we
certainly didn't anticipate the further instability that was to come out.


 One of the central problems of the Middle East is the desire for Iran to dominate that portion of the world because of what they are doing. And that is why I believe that they are seeking this kind of nuclear capacity. 

That is one of the reasons why we are, in fact, in Iraq. And that's why our
soldiers, when they fight and die there, are, in fact, serving the interests
of the United States. Nobody ought to have any doubt about that.

With respect to Iran, the policy I would follow would be dual. Number one, we
need to work with our European allies in order to put in appropriate
sanctions. We need to communicate directly with the Iranians that we are going
to offer them an opportunity to work with us. But we're also going to say that
having a nuclear weapon is unacceptable. They need to understand it. And all
options are on the table by the United States in that instance.


 Well, we've gotten a little mileage out of "Rudy McRomney." I know the mayor one time said that it would make a good ticket. And it would, but it isn't a conservative ticket. And we don't know what Fred Thompson is either. I think he's a fine man. He served in the Senate a term and a half. Let's see exactly what his views are. 

I'm coming forward and offering my views as a 40-year battler for conservative
values and conservative principles on behalf of the people of the United
States, and I have the record to back it up. I've been a prosecutor. I've been
an attorney general. I've been a governor. I governed as a conservative. I cut
taxes for the people of the Commonwealth of Virginia. I've stood by these
principles for years and years.

The question is, when Fred Thompson comes into the race, as I believe he will,
and maybe even Speaker Gingrich may come into the race, they will have to
stand on their records and stand on their credentials and offer their ideas
the same way that every person here on the stage is doing. I look forward to
that day, and I look forward to the debate.


 I agree that if you make profits in the open marketplace that that's an appropriate thing to do. I also believe that they should be going in, putting this additional money into additional drilling, into additional exploration, but it's going to have to be bigger than that. We're going to have to in fact look to all sources: ethanol, biomass, all coal, clean coal, the opportunities for natural gas, and nuclear power. And by the way, nuclear power will help this whole issue of global warming. 

And one more point in direct answer to your question, the Kyoto Treaty was in
fact fatally flawed. That was a treaty that in fact was going to basically
just transfer money directly to Russia for nothing because they were going to
get credits because simply that their economy had declined. The truth is,
we're going to have to get a program in place, an international diplomatic
answer that is going to include every nation of the world in this entire
project, and that includes China and India. (Applause.)


 No. I'm steeped in the law. I wouldn't do that. 


 The question was whether or not a conservative agenda can also have a conservation agenda. And I think that it can. Certainly when I was governor of the state of Virginia, we worked very hard in order to make Virginia a beautiful place and a place where we could in fact be welcoming to people and that it would be a nice community for people to visit. 

But at the end of the day, this is going to come down to the question of
whether or not conservatism can match up with energy independence, which is a
national security issue. And it is the fundamental part of conservatism.

Conservatism means empowering people. It means cutting taxes and controlling
government spending. It also means national security. And national security
means a lot of different elements right - at this time. And we're discussing
some of them tonight. And I can assure the people who are families here
tonight, there are young people, younger men and women, who are on the battle
lines, and people who are committing their lives - they are in fact serving
the national interests of this country in a time of major crisis.

The other two issues, however, would also go to the issue of the immigration
issue, which I want to come back to at some point, but also energy
independence. And energy independence also can serve the interests of
conservation, particularly if we use nuclear power and other clean forms of
energy so that we can in fact make this a clean society that is also safe and
secure for the nation.


 Wolf, let me answer the question. Principle is the difference. The Republicans have always been a party of principle, and when we deviate from that, the people of the United States remember. 

Let me say this. Number one, on the issue of immigration, it violates the
principle of the rule of law, and if we pass this bill and support it as
Republicans, we will lose again.

Spending - if we continue to earmark and spend and spend -


 \- we will be violating our principles. 

And finally on taxes, the president has a pretty good tax program, as a matter
of fact, that's not only helped the economy but helped regular people. And
Hillary Clinton is wrong -


 \- when she says that we should eliminate those tax cuts. (Applause.) 


 Glad to. When I was a candidate for governor, I was told that a conservative couldn't appeal to moderate areas in the state of Virginia. And I rejected that because I believe that conservatism still stands for all people, it stands for everyone. And it goes to this question that my colleagues were talking about, what's an American. An American is someone who's noble, someone who's greater than just themselves and their own personal interests, and someone the rest of the world can look up to, and someone who believes in liberty and freedom. 

And when I ran for governor, I went to the moderate communities and said:
Listen, we're going to talk about empowering people. We're going to talk about
giving back more tax money. We're going to talk about the value that is yours
around the kitchen table to decide where your child's going to go to school or
whether or not you can pay the tuitions, or whether you can pay the mortgages.
And you earned this money and you - we understand very well that you have to
pay taxes, but we also understand the value of every single person and as a
taxpayer.

 Well, I appreciate the question about Iran, because I think it is one of the real emerging problems. And you have to look at this Middle East issue beyond just the Iraq issue. 

You have to look at all the complexities of Israel and Palestine and Iran and
Iraq and the entire issue of the Middle East.

With respect to Iran, I think that there is no choice at this point other than
to join up with people across the world in order to put on serious mandatory
sanctions against Iran and to do everything that is going to be necessary to
try to bring them to the notion that it is better for them to give up this
sort of plan rather than to proceed the way we are.

However, I think that we have to have an honest discussion with the American
people about this. We have to ask ourselves this question: Are we prepared to
have Iran have a nuclear weapon? What will be the consequences of that when
Saudi Arabia says, "The people on the other side have got a nuclear weapon, we
have to have a nuclear weapon." What if they go to Pakistan and ask for
assistance in that? What about Egypt? And I think the American people have to
at some point come to a real serious conclusion about the tough decision that
has to be made when we may have to in fact strike.


 Well, Wendell, one thing's for sure, and that is that we have developed a whole system, Social Security, of all these entitlement systems that are going to eat up the ability of the taxpayer to be able to pay for them. So we're going to have to address with the American people exactly what these programs are like and how we can put a cap on these in such a way that we're going to be able to pay for them and create a culture of independence in this country so people can provide for themselves through education and entrepreneurship in a way that liberates them for this. 

But I want to talk to you a minute also about cutting taxes. I cut taxes when
I was governor. I've been a consistent conservative my entire life. I think
that the people in the audience and the people at home believe that
conservatism is best. But I want to tell you, Wendell, I looked back at the
California debates, and I think that some of the people on this stage were
very liberal in characterizing themselves as conservatives, particularly on
the issues of abortion and taxes and health care.


 And I want to say -- well, let me to say to you that in this forum, it's very difficult to single people out. But I will say this -- we're going to talk about it on my website tomorrow, gilmoreforpresident.com, and a blog from New Jersey tomorrow night. 


 Thanks, Chris. Actually I thought it was a pretty good line. It got a lot of attention around the country. 

You know, there are reasons for this. Let's take for example the abortion
issue. We've got one candidate here on the stage who has in this campaign has
said that he is against federal funding of abortions, but is in favor of
federal financing of abortions. But then on the other hand, he said in the
last debate he was against the Hyde Amendment.

We have another candidate who says that he in fact is a tax- cutter and would
cut taxes and support these programs. But at the same time, in his own state
he was a dramatic tax-increaser.

We have another candidate who says that he is, in fact --


 Certainly. Rudy Giuliani, of course, has taken that position with respect to abortion. With respect to taxes, Governor Huckabee has in fact raised taxes in his state significantly during his administration. On health care, Governor Romney has said in the last debate that this was a privately funded -- or a privately sanctioned type of program for health care, when indeed it is not. In fact, there's mandatory requirement for participation in that, and that's certainly government if I've ever seen it. 


 I'll come back. 


 Brit, I actually had to deal with this issue. I was the governor of the state of Virginia during the 9/11 attack. The Pentagon was in fact struck; it's in Arlington, Virginia. 

But before that time, I'd been asked by the United States government to chair
the National Commission on Terrorism and Homeland Security. We issued two
reports. Before the 9/11 attack, the third one was complete. We did two more
after that. So I have the experience to deal with these issues, and I've done
a lot of scenarios like this.


 Well, with respect to the United Nations, first of all let me say that I would go to the U.N., but it would be to state an opinion and to take advantage of our rights on an international law, not to go ask for permission. And then I would go in, after having explained exactly what we were doing to the world and asking for world support, but even without it, we would go in and act decisively against that. 

Meanwhile, with respect to homeland security, we've got to put a system in
place that talks about a complete partnership and community of preparedness
between federal, state and local people, private sector community leadership,
and that particularly means information sharing between federal, state and
local authorities, something we said as early as the year 1999. And if you do
that, I believe from my experience as prosecutor and attorney general, that
you can get this information -- (bell rings) -- and then find ways to protect
the country even in a shopping center.


 You know, Chris, as national chairman of the party, I worked very hard with the rest of the party to reach out in the Hispanic community, reach out in the African-American community. I made appropriate appointments. As governor of Virginia, I did the same thing. I brought people together and brought people in. 

As a person who has a record with the African-American community when I was
the attorney general of the state -- there were church burnings that were
going on all across the South -- I stepped up with my fellow attorney generals
and spoke out against that, and it stopped. As the governor of Virginia, I
favored the African-American universities in order to draw people together.


 Listen, there will be people from our party who are in the minority who will be candidates, and we have people that are prepared to do that in the immediate future. 

But the fact of the matter is that the people of the United States have got to
judge the people who in fact have stood up and decided to run, have put
themselves into the arena.

And they have to judge it on the way of the record, Chris.

I mean, I recognize that I shook things up here a little bit. But the fact is,
the people of the United States deserve to know where people really stand, and
the only way to do that is to examine the record.



