: Well, I think that maybe the governor has rethought his comments that he made about an arrogant foreign policy, because it seems now what he's saying is that we were arrogant because we didn't go in with enough troops. 


: I think that's kind of a different impression than the one that he originally sought to leave. 

I don't think our foreign policy has been arrogant. Presidents are not
perfect; policies are not perfect.

But the bottom line is, we are in a global war with radical Islam. They
declared on us -- war on us a long, long time ago. We took note, really, for
the first time on September 11 of 2001.

We must do whatever is necessary to protect ourselves.

We weren't considered to be arrogant in Afghanistan when we went in there and
won that conflict.

I agree that we made a mistake in terms of going into Iraq as far as the
number of troops are concerned. And I think a flawed strategy also. I think
that's been rectified now. And I think we're on the -- on the way to
prevailing there.

And because we are prevailing there, I think it's going to be for a safer
United States of America.


: Charlie, is this subject still open? 


: Can we comment on that? 

I served on the Intelligence Committee in the Senate. I was the floor manager
for the Republicans on the homeland security bill, so I have a bit of a
different vantage point than some of my colleagues on this.

The question had to do with preemption.

Preemption didn't just appear one day as a good idea. After the Cold War, we
had one big enemy and one big weapon against us. When we, kind of, took a
holiday from history in the 1990s and let our military slide and our
intelligence capability slide, the world was changing. We now have multiple
enemies. We now have terrorists and terrorist groups, Al Qaida, rogue nations
in different stages of developing nuclear weapons.


: We must be prepared for the different kind of weaponry that we're facing. We could be attacked with a biological weapon and not even know it for a long period of time. This is a different world. 

So, instead of mutual assured destruction, which we lived under for a long
time, it's now a world where preemption has got to be an option under the
right circumstances.


: Things that happen on the other side of the world sometimes can affect us, such as perhaps Pakistan. 

We should only go in where we should and where we're able to.


: Who have we invaded before 9/11? 


: Occupying? 


: A base? 

(CROSSTALK)


: Charlie, you started it. 

(LAUGHTER)


: Everyone has kind of a wish list. I think it's most important, though, that a president of the United States understand that our principles, our first principles are based on the Constitution of the United States -- understanding the nature of our government, the checks and the balances, the separation of powers that our founding fathers set up a long time ago. 


: There's a reason for that. They knew about human nature. They learned from the wisdom of the ages. 

They set the government up according to that. They set the powers out in the
Constitution of the federal government, and they basically said if the powers
aren't delineated in this document they don't exist.

And then we got the 10th Amendment that says if they're not delineated they
belong to the people and to the states.

That's fundamental to everything else.

And then we grew from that, principles such as a dollar belongs in the pocket
of the person that earned it, unless the government can make a case that it
can spend it better. You don't spend money that you don't have, and you
certainly don't spend your grandchildren's money with debt that they're not at
the table when the decision has been made to spend it.


: We certainly have the best health care in the world. 

(CROSSTALK)


: Ahem. 

(LAUGHTER)


: So if we would stop printing so much money, we could get out of the war and provide health care to everybody. 


: OK. I just wanted to... 

(CROSSTALK)


: I wanted to make sure I had this right. 

(LAUGHTER)


: Let me break it down a little bit so I can understand it a little bit better. 


: We've got the best health care in the world. It costs more than it should. 

We can either go one of two ways.

We can let the government take it over, and that'll lower costs, like they do
in other countries. We will also sacrifice care, which nobody wants to do --
we're not going to do, in this country.

Or we can make the markets work more efficiently. There are a lot of
components to that. Part of that is not just giving a tax break to the
individual. That's part of it. But it's also putting them in a position to get
the best prices for the care they're getting.

We do that in every other aspect of our life. That's what keeps prices as low
as they are.


: I mean, if the consumer had no concept of what the product was costing and did no shopping for it, when you could get an MRI here for one price or over here for half the price, you don't even know that to make the choice. It wouldn't work at all. 

So you can do that. You can open up these markets so a person can buy their
insurance from all over the country. We've got various state regulations now,
that, as a practical matter, prohibit that. Make the markets work.

But we're never -- let's be honest with the people. We're probably never -- if
you lower costs, more people who want insurance will be able to afford it.
We're probably never going to achieve total coverage.

A good number of the people who are uninsured can afford it and choose not to
do so. A good number of people who are eligible for government assistance, and
choose -- can manage and choose not to.


: I beg your pardon? I didn't know you were going to admit that. You like mandates. 


: The ones you come up with. 

(LAUGHTER)


: The government is going to make you buy insurance... 


: ,.. and make you pay -- I mean, the state -- your state plan, which is, of course, different from your national plan, did require people to make that choice, though. The state required them to do that. 

What was the penalty if they refused?


: Well, I asked the question first. 

(LAUGHTER)


: Did your plan cut people off at $100,000? Was that the level? 


: Did it only apply to people with $100,000 income and over? 


: Didn't you say Republicans were making a terrible mistake if they were separating themselves with President Bush on the illegal immigration issue? 


: The question is, are you rewarded for your illegal behavior in any way? 

If the answer is yes, it's amnesty.


: Do you get allowed to -- but you can still stay in the country? 


: But you can still stay in the country? 


: But you can still stay in the country? 


: You can have -- you can have -- you can have enforcement by attrition if you obey the law and you enforce the law that's on the books today. 

If we started securing the border, as we are supposed to do -- and we're all
in agreement that it must be done now.


: I mean, we arrest thousands, over the years, of people from countries that are state sponsors of terrorism. I mean, it's essentially a national security issue, as well as an issue of fairness, as well as a social issue with regard to what states and communities have to face nowadays, and workers who are in competition with this. 

If we enforced the borders so people couldn't go back and forth, if we
assisted employers with a system that we now have on the books that 20,000,
30,000 employers now are using, a verification system so you could essentially
punch a button, the Homeland Security folks will tell you whether or not this
person is illegal on the front end, and if we stop sanctuary cities where
we're telling local people that you can't cooperate with federal authorities,
and stop inducing people to come here with employment and protection under
sanctuary cities, as Mayor Giuliani did when he was mayor of New York, then we
would have -- we would have attrition of these numbers and start reversing...

(CROSSTALK)


: What about just being illegal? 


: We passed a bill in 1996... 


: All right. Go back and look at the record. In 1996, Congress -- the United States Congress, when I was there, when I was in the Senate, we passed a bill outlawing illegal amnesty. 


: I'm serious. Rudy went to court and sued to overturn what we'd passed in legislation. We weren't trying to throw children out on the street either. I think if you... 


: We were (inaudible) inhumane conditions. 

(CROSSTALK)


: Well, Senator Obama has adopted the position of every liberal interest group in this country as best I can tell; all the major ones, the NEA and everyone who's stepped forth with a position paper on these issues. His positions are very liberal positions. 


: His first alternative to all problems, as best I can see, is not only the government, but the federal government. 

He's talking in generalities right now. As the time goes on, the process goes
on, I think he'll have to be more definitive. But it's clear from what he's
said so far that he's taking that position.

And as far as change is concerned, the change we need is to go to
constitutional principles, the first principles this country was founded upon,
respect for the rule of law, market economies, free people doing free things,
and a country that doesn't tax and spend it's people to death, that's doesn't
regulate the life blood out of them, doesn't spend money that it doesn't have.

And that's not the direction they want to go in. They want to take us down the
road of the welfare state, essentially, and a road that I think would lead us
to a weaker position in terms of national security.


: It was an Iowa Democratic primary (inaudible). 


: A lot of independents. 


: Bothered by the high profits, you say? 


: Yeah. 


: Well, I take note of those profits, and I take note of the losses when they've had them. 


: Such as what? 


: Windfall profits tax? No. No. 

You know, the oil price basically is a function or a result of supply and
demand.


: Now, we can throw rocks at each other, and we can demagogue the issue and all that. And, of course, there's plenty of it. 

But getting back to your original question, Charlie, I mean, nobody knows what
the price of oil is going to be in the future. But I think you make a good
case that it's going to be -- it's going to be very high. Because it's not
just us. The Chinese are demanding more oil, going around the world and making
all kinds of deals with dictators and causing all kinds of other problems
because of it. India. There are a lot of growing economies out there.

And that's the world we live in for the immediate future. We're not going to
be energy independent in a few years.

Now, we have to be more diversified. We're getting too much oil from trouble
spots in the world. Everybody knows about the Middle East. Everybody knows
about Chavez and Venezuela. And we're just too dependent on the wrong kinds of
people.


: And we need to do all the things that John mentioned -- as I recall, the things he mentioned -- plus cleaner coal technology, plus using the oil reserves that we have here in this country and nuclear -- more nuclear. 

But, you know, we are not -- you know, we're not a nation that regulates the
profits or the losses of our economy. We want people refining that oil and we
want people -- and there hasn't been a refinery built here in a long time in
this country.

And we want the oil to flow. We need for it to flow right now while we work
our way into a more diversified situation.


: There'd be no windfall profit tax on that. 


: I agree. 


