
 I think we've got to pull together here to win over there, and Chris, I think it is a way for us to pull forward. I mean, we've got far too many divisions in this government here. 

And we will win if we can pull together, and we can win the war. And I think
as well, if you look at it, it's difficult for democracy and particularly for
the United States, for us to win with one party for the war and one party
against the war.

And I condemn the statements of Harry Reid, the majority leader of the Senate,
saying we've already lost. We haven't lost. That's his declaration, but we've
got to pull people together here. And when we can do that, and when we do
that, we will win.

The other thing we have to do -- a much more aggressive political solution on
the ground in Iraq. That has to take place, and that's why I've been pushing a
three-state, one-country solution where you have a Sunni region, a Shi'a
region and a Kurdish state that already exists, within a weak federation. That
form of political solution aggressively pushed there, without Iraqi
politicians going home for the summer but then working through these difficult
political problems, can get a solid political solution on the ground there as
we pull together to win here.


 Absolutely not. 


 How I'd prevent that is us getting more supply in the system through biofuels for one thing, like ethanol from Kansas or maybe Iowa would be a nice state, too, for it to come from -- (laughter) -- biodiesel. Us being able to drill more at home here in the United States, and we can do this in places like ANWR safely, environmentally sound, but get the supply up here. 

And, we have to in the future work on more conservation here. My family, we
have a hybrid car. In that car you can get up to 42, 43 miles to the gallon.

Now my 17-year-old daughter does about 25 on it, so it does matter how you
drive it.

But the point of it is, is you can do better, and we can do better. And we can
do this through technology, and we can do this through increasing supply here.
And by that mixture we can become energy-secure in North America in 15 years,
which I think should be one of our key objectives, so that we're not held
hostage to a guy like Chavez in Venezuela or Ahmadinejad in Iran. We can do
better, and we need to do better than $4-a-gallon gasoline.


 I certainly believe he would work to pull us together to win over there, and I certainly do see him pulling us together to be able to solve a tough problem on immigration. And we had a situation in 1986 under Ronald Reagan, where he endorsed an the amnesty proposal. We had a proposal in 1996 that passed that was an enforcement-only proposal. And pulling these together for as far as getting enforcement and then working together is something that we have to do, I think, to fundamentally change and alter the situation we have in this country right on immigration where the system is failed. 

The system isn't working. We've got to toughen the borders, and we need to do
that. And we've got to somehow work together to see a work visa program that
will allow people to get into a legal system, not an illegal system. I mean
that's what people really get irritated about. It's not that people come into
the country legally, it's that they come in illegally. And I think Ronald
Reagan would work on those sorts of things.

But he also would work on lowering taxes, which I voted for and pushed for an
alternate flat tax. (Bell rings.) He would also work to reduce spending.


 That would be a very difficult situation, and it is a very difficult situation. But the basic question remains. Is the child in the womb a person? Is it a viable life? And if it is a person, it's entitled to respect. And is it an innocent person? 

And I think that's the thing we've got to really look at here, is, what are we
doing? We talk about abortion, but abortion is a procedure. This is a life
that we're talking about. And it's a terrible situation where there's a rape
that's involved or incest.

But it nonetheless remains that this is a child that we're talking about doing
this to, of ending the life of this child. Will that make the woman in a
better situation if that's what takes place? And I don't think so, and I think
we can explain it when we look at it for what it is: a beautiful child of a
loving God, that we ought to protect in all circumstances in all places, here
in the womb, somebody that's struggling in poverty, a family that's
struggling. We should work and look at all life, be pro-life and whole-life
for everybody.


 I would not go to the United Nations in the situation you've described. You've described a situation where American lives have been lost and we think more are pending to lose. And I think your real question you have to have here as the chief executive, as the leader of the country, what are you measuring here? Is your primary concern U.S. lives or is it how you're going to be perceived in the world? And my standard is U.S. lives, and I'm going to do everything within my power to protect U.S. lives, period. 

I will do it. I'll move aggressively forward on it. If we have to later ask
and say, "Well, it shouldn't quite have been done this way or that way,"
that's the way it is. But the standard must be protection of U.S. lives.
That's the job of president of the United States, and I would take it
seriously, and I would do it.


 I'm Sam Brownback. I was raised on a farm near Parker, Kansas. My wife, Mary, and I have five children. We live in Topeka. I'm a U.S. senator in my third term. 


 I don't remember that report. I had a number of briefings. And I held a number of committee hearings. At that time, I was chairing the Middle East Subcommittee on Foreign Relations and we held hearings on this topic and what was taking place and what Saddam was doing. 

But the issue is, is that we've got to put forward now a political plan. And
that's something I'm going to introduce tomorrow, a political plan to create a
three-state solution in Iraq - a Kurdish state, a Sunni state, a Shi'a state -
because Iraq is more three groups held together by exterior forces.


 And that's what we've lacked, is a political plan to get us moving forward and success. 


 I think he made a right call on saying that about terrorist states, particularly Iran. But I think we have to at times talk with them in different situations, like before we went into Afghanistan, we talked with Iran. 

It wasn't we were negotiating. We didn't open up formal diplomatic relations,
and we shouldn't.

Iran is the lead sponsor of terrorism. Ahmadinejad just this past week called
for the destruction of Israel, continues to call for attacking of the United
States. On Iraq, I think we need to talk with him. I think we have to confront
them aggressively for what they are, which is the lead sponsor of terrorism in
the world. I think we need to push the sanctions forward more aggressively. I
think we need to more equip the labor union movement that's developing inside
of Iran; they had a bus driver strike that recently took place. And I think we
have to show that purpose and resolve - that we're going to confront these
guys, and we're going to stand with our allies like Israel, we're going to
stand against them oppressing and pushing us and trying to fund terrorists
against us.


 Senator, if you don't mind. 


 That's okay. 


 I don't think you create any new paths to citizenship. But I also think you allow them to be able to use paths they would currently qualify for, and to be able to get in the back of the line. And that's part of leadership and getting something resolved. 

I think - you know, we can go on a lot of slogans here. And I've been around
this issue for a while. I was in Congress in 1994, elected then. We did the
first immigration bill I was involved in then, in 1996. You know what, that
was as enforcement-only bill in 1996, and we had 7 million undocumented in the
country then. We're at 12 (million) to 20 million now.

The point of saying that - and my colleagues and people up here, everybody is
concerned that we get something done and get something right. I think if you
do exterior enforcement, border enforcement, you do aggressive interior
enforcement, and then you work on a comprehensive solution interior, that's
something that a lot of people are going to be upset with, but that can work
and move us forward. And it's better than not doing anything.


 If we can hold together those things in it, those things have to be in it. 


 If those things are in it. 


 I'd be happy to. And it's interesting that we're doing this here, at St. Anselm's, who this - that saint had a philosophy of faith seeking reason. And that's the issue that's missing here, if I could highlight that point, is that I believe that we are created in the image of God for a particular purpose. And I believe that with all my heart. And I'm somebody - I've had cancer in the past. I've had a season to really look at this and study it and think about the end of life. And I am fully convinced there's a God of the universe that loves us very much and was involved in the process. How he did it, I don't know. 

One of the problems we have with our society today is that we put faith and
science at odds with each other. They aren't at odds with each other. If they
are, check your faith or check your science. And we should have a discussion.


 And we should engage faith and reason, like Saint Anselm did. 


 That's something we should do. 


 Thank you. 


 Well, I would talk with him about it first and I would ask him about it. I think he would probably take a position the way his dad did, saying, you know, I think you need to have your time in the limelight, and I'll be willing to help out if you have a tragedy overseas. His father's been excellent - the tsunami that hit Sri Lanka and other places - in helping fundraising. He's been a wonderful ambassador in those sorts of situations. And frankly, I think that's the right role for an ex-president. 

And I really think in many respects President Clinton has not assumed the
right role of an ex-president, where he's injected himself a lot more on
policy issues that haven't been appropriate, and he really should defer more
to the person that's in the job. There's one person that's president at a
time, and that's the way it should be.


 Yes. The basic crime here didn't happen. 


 What they were saying was that the identity of an agent was revealed - 


 \- but that agent has to be in the field for that to be a crime. That didn't occur. 


 If I could, and thank you for your family's service and what your brother did. That's incredible and an incredible gift that he and your family have given us. And I think you identified the right thing. It's not about leaving and it's not about being defeated. It's about getting the situation to a point that we can turn it over to Iraqis and then us pull back from the front of the line. 

That's why I'm putting forward tomorrow a bill - and this would be about a
three-state solution in Iraq - a Kurdish state, a Sunni state, a Shi'a state -
with Baghdad as the federal city, in a loose, weak, federated system, oil
revenues equally divided, and it's a bipartisan bill. We will have bipartisan
support.

We've got to pull together here to win over there.


 And we can do this together, but we haven't put yet forward, this administration, a political solution that we can like - 


 \- that will be long term and durable. 


 That's what we've got to do. 


 It's not divided. 


 Three states, one country. 


 Thank you, and thank you for the question from a philosopher. 

I think it's a life issue clearly, and I am pro-life and I'm whole life. And
one of the things I'm the most, the proudest about our party about is that
we've stood for life. We've been a party that has stood for a culture of life,
and it was in our platform in 1980 and it continues today.

And with that respect - and I have respect for my other colleagues - that's
why I don't think we can nominate somebody that's not pro-life in this party
because it is at our core. We believe that every life is beautiful, is sacred,
is a child of a loving God, from natural - from conception to natural death,
and that applies not only here and in the womb, it applies to somebody that's
in poverty, it applies to the child in Darfur.

And that philosophy, being pro-life and whole life, is something I think can
really help move us forward as a country and as a party.


 I - that question came up at the first debate, and I stated that this is something that we as a party have struggled with. I have great respect for the mayor. I don't think we're going to nominate somebody that's not pro-life. 


 I can support and will support the nominee of our party, but our party has stood on principles. It's a party of principles, it's not a party of personalities. 


 We lose when we walk away from our principles. That's when we have trouble. And that's what the country wants us to do - 


 \- is to stand for principles. (Applause.) 


 Spending. But it's bigger than that; it's hope and ideas. 

And I want one I put - I want - I have one I want to put on the line here:
taking on cancer and deaths by cancer, and ending deaths by cancer in 10
years. The leading cause of fear in America today is that you'll get cancer,
and this is one that's actually within our reach -


 \- and it's something I think we can go at and we should go at, and it touches a lot of Americans. 


 I'd like to -- 


 Okay. I'd like -- 


 Well, I'd say, on his second thoughts, he's already pulled that trigger and he's decided what he's going to do. And I think he needs to stick with that. 

And this is a -- a terrible situation, the factual setting on it. What I think
is good about it is that he's taking responsibility in the sense of resigning
from office, and I think he ought to stick with it.

What I think was also good about it was as far as the Republican Party
leadership saying we think we ought to get to the bottom of this; that we
shouldn't hide people, we should put it in an ethics process; and that there's
a process to do that.

But let me back up and to talk about the bigger picture. I think it is
important that the party stand for family values. I'm running saying that the
lead thing we need to do is rebuild the family in this country, and I think we
need to be clear about our efforts and willingness to do that.

And if we're going to solve problems of education, crime, what -- what's
taking place in some of our areas where we're not getting the growth, we've
got to rebuild the family. That's at the core of what we need to do, and we
shouldn't walk away from family values for fear that instances like this
happen within our party. We should be bolder about standing up for family.
(Bell sounds.) Family's important for us, and it's important for America.
(Applause.)


 The answer to that is yes. And the reason is is this is a foundational institution. (Cheers, applause, boos.) 


 It is a foundational institution. (Audience continues to boo.) 

I understand this is a divided audience on this, and I understand we as a
country are struggling with this question, but these issues aren't done in a
vacuum. I had a question earlier about family values, and I think this is
important for us to rebuild the family structure. In countries that have
redefined marriage, where they've said, okay, it's not just a man and a woman,
it can be two men, two women, the marriage rates in those countries have
plummeted to where you have counties now in Northern Europe where 80 percent
of the first-born children are born out of wedlock. We don't need more
children born out of wedlock; we need more children born into wedlock between
a mom and a dad bonded together for life.

When you do these vast social experiments -- and that's what this is, when you
redefine marriage. It's a vast social experiment. They're not done in
isolation. They impact the rest of the culture around you. When you take the
sacredness out of marriage, you will drive the marriage rates down. And
currently in this country, currently we're at 36 percent of our children born
out of wedlock. You can raise a good child in that setting, but we know the
best place is between a mom and a dad bonded together for life. (Boos, cheers,
applause.)


 I didn't hear your question, so I'm going to -- 


 Thank you. 

I think what we need to do now is look at the situation we have and now have a
political surge taking place. This is Thomas Friedman's statement, but it is
true. You've got the military that has made a number of progressive steps,
particularly in the west, Al Anbar province. They've made progress. But we
don't have a political solution on the ground that works in Iraq.

Iraq is less a country than it is three groups held together by exterior
forces. It's the Kurds in the north, the Sunni in the west, the Shi'a in the
south, and a mixed city in Baghdad. And yes, there are groups that are mixed
around in that. I think we need to recognize that reality.

We ought to now push for establishment of a Sunni state in the west, still one
country, still one country, but separate states. That's a political solution
-- that you can take advantage of what the military has done on the ground.
That's what we need to do to move forward now.


 How do you do it now? I mean, I think you're going to need a long-term U.S. presence in, I think, particularly in the Kurdish region in the north and the Sunni region in the west, that you're going to have a long-term -- invited by those governments, and you're going to need it to assure the Turks that the Kurds aren't going to pull out and to assure the Kurds that the Turks aren't going to come in. I think that's what you have to do in looking at the reality. 

And the next president needs to come in and know foreign policy and not learn
it on the job. This is something we need to know going in. The world is flat.
I ought to know that. Being from Kansas, I understand flat. (Laughter.)


 No, but I would lean -- (laughter) -- heavily on the vice president for advice and thought because I think it's important that the two people come in as a team. I think the president and the vice president ought to come in as a team. I think they ought to have complementarity. I think they ought to have division of duties in some respects for -- as president says, I really want to focus on these areas. I'd like for you to do these particular fields. But it's still the president that decides, and it's the president that should have all the information feeding there to him in that position of authority. And he needs somebody that has a good broad base of experience to be able to do it, good broad base of foreign policy experience. 

And if I could say one thought on this presidential power because it's
important. We've got hundreds of millions of entries into the United States
legally each year of individuals that are U.S. citizens or individuals that
are not U.S. citizens. This is a big international country. You have to have
the ability to be able to find and to understand what's taking place, and I
think the president needs to go through judicial power to be able to put
wiretaps on different individuals, but particularly on calls that go overseas.
We need this because we're not talking about just a needle in a haystack;
we're talking about a needle in a hay field of millions of people that we have
to -- need to watch, and we need to find with good intelligence --


 \-- who it is that seeks to do us harm. 


 Well, he has his -- he has his own record. He stands on his own record. I think he should sign a pledge; that's why I signed the pledge. 

I think it's not just a pledge to a group that has it; I think it's a pledge
to the American public. We're already taxed to the max. In most states, you're
working till about the middle of May to pay your taxes. It is too long. You're
working too much for the government, and you need to be working more for --
for yourself. And I'd push these topics based on I think we need to grow the
economy, plus I'd like to be able to see families keep more of their own
money, and so that possibly maybe one of them doesn't have to go to work
instead of both having to go to work if more families could keep more of their
money instead of it going to the government. (Applause.)


 I think the -- the problem with your question and scenario is it's a -- an all too likely scenario. What you're describing is much of the situation that we're facing today. 

And you have to also recognize that the founder of the current Iranian regime,
Ayatollah Khomeini, said, "If we destroy Israel, Allah will reward us." That
was his stated policy. That's something that he stated.

I think you have to take the factual setting of what you've put forward, take
it to the American public and to the Congress, and ask for the authority to
use military force for two purposes: number-one purpose is to go after the
military forces being developed on the ground and trained on the ground in
Iran to attack our people in Iraq; and number two, towards the nuclear weapons
development program that the Iranians are working on.


 Thank you very much for having us here. 

I want to say just at the outset, I apologize for the candidates that aren't
here. I think this is a disgrace that they're not here.

I think it's a disgrace for our country, I think it's bad for our party, and I
don't think it's good for our future.

You know, you grow political parties by expanding your base, by reaching out
to people and getting more people. What they're doing is sending the message
of narrowing the base, and that's not the right way to go. It's not good for
the Republican Party, it's not good for the country. And I'm sorry. I'm sorry
to you and I'm sorry to those watching that they're not here.

I've got a suggestion, though, for a way to fix it. A lot of people on the
Republican side say: Well, OK, we can't get votes in the African American
community. I say: Why don't you pick one of the early primary states, like a
South Carolina or a Michigan, register Republican, and vote for one of the six
of us?

And then let's see what takes place.


 Lucille, it's a great question. It's one we should ponder and ponder seriously. There are several things that I would do. One is focusing in on rebuilding the family, and that's been at the core of my campaign -- is rebuilding the family. 

We pushed that in Washington D.C. where I chaired the committee and developed
marriage -- development accounts, and really urging that.

The second one is I think symbols are important, and I would hope I would be
the president that would open the National African American Museum of History
and Culture on the Mall in Washington, D.C.

I pushed for that. We've gotten the funding on it. And that symbolism would be
important to do.

And the final thing that I think is critical that we do. I think we need to
have -- and we need to pass in the Congress, and the president sign it and say
it, an official apology from the U.S. government for the institutions of
slavery and segregation in this country. I think that needs to be done.


 I think there's a couple of things -- I think there's a couple of things that are at work here. One is, I think clearly, we still don't have a colorblind society. And we're seeing that. We continue to see it. 

I think we've made some great progress. I've worked with Congressman John
Lewis on a number of projects, worked with him on this museum that I just
spoke about tonight. That museum is going to happen, and we worked together.

But there is still racism that does exist in America.

There is a second issue here that I think we need to address, and it's the
growth of the economy, particularly where people are located.

I come from a rural state of Kansas. And I've got places in my state where
there's economic growth taking place, and I have places where it's not.

And what you have to do to try to stimulate it is really have a tax policy,
something I've talked about, about an optional flat tax, and maybe you put it
in places where they need the economic growth to take place more than in other
places. So you stimulate the growth of the economy where people are needing
the most opportunities to grow.

And that's something I would do and work on. And I think it is part of the
issue.


 Thanks. Thanks, Ray, for the tough question. 

The American people are for immigration. They don't support illegal
immigration. That's what they want to see take place. They want a legal
system. They're for legal immigration; they're not for illegal immigration.

We've been through this debate now for a couple of years. They want to see us
secure the border, and that's something I will push and do and have voted for
and will in the future.

They want to see us have enforcement at the worksite. And that's something
that I will do and push and enforce as well, because that's the key attraction
-- not the only one, but it's the key attraction -- at the worksite.

I will not support new paths to citizenship. I do think in the future we
should look at different work-visa-type programs as a way to be able to deal
with the problem that you're identifying, which is the realistic problem of
where we are today.


 Could you say the last sentence again? Your mike's not on up here. I want to make sure I hear. 


 OK. I think I may be the only person up here on this stage that's spent a couple nights in jail, of my own volition, and I went in to look at the system. I spent a night in a prison in Kansas and I spent a night in a prison in Louisiana. I've stayed in homeless shelters to answer and to get a feel for what you're talking about. 

And you hear about it very fast. And you get a feel for it about how people
have become loners and went to crime, in some cases, and then caught and want
to turn their lives around. So it spawned me to push the Second Chance Act.

It's something that we've gotten through the Committee on the Judiciary, and
what it's primarily focused on is to help people if they have been caught and
they are in prison, that they not go back again. Because right now in the
United States of America, if you go to prison, the chances of you going back
are two-thirds, 66 percent. That is a travesty that that number is that high.

This bill in five years we cut it in half. A lot of it is faith- based
institutions. A lot of it is mentorship and work programs. So we can help
people that are chains they can't break themselves.


 Yes. It's a good question. It's a tough question. I have chaired the D.C. Subcommittee, both the authorizing and the Appropriations subcommittee. I support the residents of D.C. the right to vote. But there's a way to do it and there's a way not to do it. And the way to do it is to amend the Constitution, and the way not to do it is to pass something that's unconstitutional. 

In the 23rd Amendment to the Constitution, it gave D.C. the right to vote for
president.

But it didn't give them the right to vote for Congress. And what you have to
do what we have to do. And what I support is amending the Constitution so they
can have the right to vote. D.C. deserves that right. There's a way to do it,
there's a way not to do it.


 Ray, it's a serious question, it's an important one. I've been in my state and communities and in places experiencing what exactly what you're talking about. Not on a personal basis, but seen individuals that are having to go to a community health center at the last minute, after the disease has already really grown and pronounced itself and they hesitate because they don't have insurance coverage or they don't have the money to be able to do this. 

This is a real problem. It's real people that are involved in this type of
situation.

I think the question you have to ask is: Which is the best way to go, then?

Do you do it with more government or do you do it with more markets?

Because these are real people experiencing this. And I pick more markets and
real markets with it. Because I have not seen, in this country, ever, when the
government enters into something on a bigger basis, do we get higher quality
service or more of it?

We don't. It doesn't work that way. So I really -- and one thing that hasn't
been talked about up here is health savings accounts. We need to expand that
so people can save money, tax-exempt, from their work, the employers putting
that in so they can have some money for their health care coverage.


 One, I think it's clear what we need to do at this point in time, and I think we need to talk about at this point in time, where we are. We declared war. We voted in Congress to go to war, Republican and Democrats. People can say things weren't right, we shouldn't have done this, shouldn't have done that. 

We are where we are today. The military, I believe, has done and is doing a
superb job. We have had a terrible political answer on the ground in Iraq.

A terrible -- yesterday, in the Congress, a bipartisan political solution
passed. It was the Biden-Brownback bill -- or, since I'm here, it was the
Brownback-Biden bill.

It declares a three-state federalized solution to Iraq -- a Kurdish north, a
Sunni west, a Shia south, with Baghdad as a federal city; weak federated
government; most of the policies devolve down to the local units of
government. Because Iraq is less a country than it is three groups of people.
We need to recognize that. And we can move forward with that political
solution...


 ... and pull our guys back. 


 I know this won't be a crowd-pleaser, but I couldn't disagree more with that last answer. 

We are the greatest nation on the face of the Earth, and we are ones that can
stand up. And we need to stand up in the face of second genocide when we had
declared years ago in Rwanda: Never again.

And what is happening? It is happening again. And it's not just the first
genocide that's taken place in Sudan, it's the second. And I've been there.

We need to do divestiture campaigns here. We need to support the African Union
troops there. We shouldn't put our own troops. We don't need to put our own
troops.


 We need to provide food and medicine as well. 


 We need a culture of life in the United States, a culture that recognizes every life at every stage. It's beautiful, it's unique, it's a child of a loving God, period. 

I have difficulty with the death penalty. This is an individual, though, in
that case, that has committed a heinous crime. I think we should limit the
death penalty to cases only where we cannot protect the society from the
individual, such as when Osama bin Laden is caught.

We need to be able to use it then.

But we should use this very limited and only in that circumstance, in order to
talk and to teach a culture of life in America.


 I live in the town of Topeka, Kansas. Brown v. Board of Education was decided in my hometown. 

I believe we still need integration taking place in the schools, and I think
it's an important thing. I think we need to do it on a voluntary and
incentivized basis as much as we possibly can, but it is important for us to
maintain it as a goal and objective of this country.


 Yes. And I'd like to use the rest of my answer and time -- (laughter) -- to talk about some other things, because clearly, the last thing we need to do is raise taxes in this country. Currently the country now, the average citizen works until the first part, middle, of May just to pay their taxes? We're taxed to the max. 

I think it's not enough just to say I'm not going to raise taxes. What should
we go to differently? Because the current tax code really is an abomination.
People don't understand it. It's manipulative. It's Washington trying to
direct people's lives.

So I've put forward a proposal of an optional flat tax, and putting that on
the table, saying, okay, you can pick this. If you want to stay in the code,
go ahead, God bless you, but here's an optional flat tax. Sixteen countries
around the world have gone to the flat tax. Nobody's gone back away from it,
because it creates growth, it creates growth in the economy, and it increases
revenue for the government.

And we also -- we have to get spending under control. Here you've got to
change the system. And I've been around it long enough to see that Republicans
or Democrats in control -- the system is built to spend. I have constituents
come in all the time to my office, and they say, "I'm a conservative, but
could we have this bridge? How about this hospital?" They never say, "We've
got too much federal money; would you please cut it?" Nobody's ever told me
that. So I think we need to take that BRAC military process for base closings,
apply it to the rest of government, so you have an annual process for culling
federal spending that requires a vote of Congress.


 Advanced Technology Program would be a good one to start with. It goes towards high-end spending, corporate welfare programs. There's an abundance of those that we've gone at. I worked with Senator McCain -- a number of us did. But cutting spending is tough to do because you always got somebody pushing back and seeking more. That's why you got to change the system, so that it regularly requires a vote of Congress on things to cut. That's what'll actually reduce spending. 


 Yes, I think of the people on this stage I'm the only that's worked in the trade field. I was in the trade field as White House fellow in the first Bush administration. 

If this party walks away from free trade, we're going the wrong way as a
party. And I think Congressman Hunter is a wonderful man. The United States is
a low-trade -- low-tariff country. I think our average tariff on anything that
we have a tariff on -- and most things we don't -- is at 4 percent, so the
negotiations we do are always with countries that have higher tariffs. And
it's the objective that we have is to get those down, and we've had a decent
record. What we've got to do now, I think, is really focus in on China's
currency manipulation and intellectual property rights.


 Yes. 


 I don't believe that in the least. We went to Iraq -- on the war in Iraq, what I voted for was the war on terrorism. 

And Afghanistan was where the Taliban was -- where al Qaeda was located; it
was run by the Taliban. And we saw in Iraq what we thought was the mixture of
terrorism and weapons of mass destruction. And it was in 2003, this was in
close proximity to 2001, when we had the 9/11 crisis, and I wasn't about to
trust that Saddam Hussein wasn't going to mix terrorists with weapons of mass
destruction. And we haven't found the weapons of mass destruction, but that
doesn't mean we leave. And I think the Bush administration has generally done
well military, and I think the military has done a fabulous job. (Applause.) I
think we have done poorly on the political side.

And this Friday, Joe Biden and I are getting together in Des Moines, and we're
going to be talking about the political side, a three-state solution in Iraq.
This is what ultimately is going to happen. You're going to have a Kurdish
north, a Sunni west, a Shi'a south within one country, federalism, with a weak
federal government; the federal government headquartered in Baghdad. Joe and I
don't agree on hardly anything, but this is what we need to do to get the
political equation. That's what has been poorly done by the Bush
administration starting with General Garner and moving on through the
succession. It hasn't been well-handled politically. We've got to get a better
bipartisan political solution -- we can.


 I think you go in every place that you can to find resources. I put forward a proposal for us to be energy-secure -- not independent, energy-secure -- in 15 years. I don't think it's realistic for us to say we can be independent of every country around the world on oil supplies or on energy supplies in the near future, given our dependence and given the nature of what the global economy is like. 

But I think one of the key answers is right here in Detroit. We've got to get
more electricity involved in our car fleet. There's a Chevy Malibu parked out
front here that's a hybrid flex-fuel -- they've got hybrid cars. They have
flex-fuel cars. I think that's a big part of the answer. I'd like to see us
move forward with getting the first 20 to 30 miles off of electricity that you
plug into at night. That's technology. We're putting forward tax credits and
incentives to try to move that forward. That's something Detroit here needs to
grab on and is. And that can move us forward as an industry and as a country.


 I voted yes for ANWR, and I would support those in other places, environmentally sound. 

We have to do it in environmentally sound fashion.


 I think real plans, like an optional flat tax -- (inaudible) -- personal Social Security accounts, and being optimistic. 

This the most powerful nation in the history of mankind right now. Less than 5
percent of the world's population, yet 20 percent of the world's economy, a
third of the world's military spending, 40 percent of our research and
development budget around the world is in this country. I mean this place
rocks, and I think we need to be optimistic and upward-looking of what this
nation is. (Applause.)


 Sure. They've been good for the United States, I think, historically. My mother was a union member. She was a mail carrier, a rural mail carrier. She called herself a "postal packin' grandma" for a good period of time. And it helped her on health care. It helped her, I think, in some negotiations. 

I think there can be abuses, and I think you're seeing some of them taking
place. Department of Labor is going through and looking at some of those
abuses. And I think the government has to work aggressively to see that those
don't take place and that there is effective oversight, which I don't think
you see during a Democrat administration. I think that is good for union
members to have that effective oversight.


 Don't pick on my mother. (Laughter.) 


 I love my mother. (Laughter, applause.) 


 Leave my mother out of this. 


 (Pause.) I like the former chairman of the Federal Reserve's thoughts that he has, would be a key individual. There would be -- I think you'd need to get really an amalgam of people on economic issues. You know, you talk about having -- economist says on this hand, it goes this way, on that hand it goes this way, and so they always are saying they're looking for a one- handed economist. I think on economics, because the things do move around on you, you need a number of people. There's even a pretty good one in the audience in Phil Gramm, the former senator out of Texas. 


 You know, I will support the nominee of this party. I think it's a big party that has a lot of different people and a lot of different philosophies, and I believe that person that's going to lead the party will be somebody that is pro-growth and pro- life. I think these are two pivotal, key foundation issues that this party needs to stand for. (Applause.) 


 (Off mike) -- it's going to be, and I'm going to support the nominee of the party. 


 The breakdown of the family is our biggest long- term problem we have. You've got 36 percent of the children born out of wedlock in Detroit -- 


 Yes, on a long-term basis. Because if you don't start children -- and you can raise a good child in a single-parent family. You can do that. But we do know by the broad numbers that the best place is between a mom and a dad, and in our inner cities, you're looking at 65, 70 percent of the children born out of wedlock. 

You know, your best way to solve your education, your crime rate problems,
your drug problems is to get more children in that stable environment. It's a
tough issue. This is a tough issue. But long term, I think that's our biggest
problem.




 I certainly do. There's one word that describes that ad, and it's "truthful." That's a truthful ad. And that's what campaigns are about, too, George, is for as far as getting the truth out, expressing the differences between candidates. 

These are good people that are up on this stage.

That's a truthful ad. I am pro-life.

I think this is a core issue for our party. I think it's a big issue for our
country. I'm pro-life and I'm whole life. I think that all life at all stages
is sacred and it's beautiful. I think it's something we ought to fight for,
it's what this party has stood for, it's what we should stand for.


 George, if I could, there's—you can go up on YouTube and see the governor himself and speaking himself... 


 ... about where he is on this position, and in 1994 say, "I'm governor..." 

_(CROSSTALK) _


 And it is a truthful position. Every piece of that is truthful. You can got to YouTube and look for the governor, what he says himself. 


 George? George? 


 There's another piece to this as well. And that is, is that you've got the military performing, I think, very well, doing an outstanding job, but the political situation continues to deteriorate on the ground in Iraq. You've got the Iraqi politicians not even meeting now. You've got a weak leadership that's taking place there. 

I think the key missing element here is political resolve on the ground. We
need a political surge, like Thomas Friedman has written about. We need to put
a three-state solution in place, like was in Iraq prior to World War I, where
you have a north that's Kurdish, which is right now; a west that's Sunni,
which is right now; and a Shia south, with Baghdad as the federal city.

A weak, soft partition: that's the piece missing...

(CROSSTALK)


 Well, that's why I voted against the bill. But it wasn't just that. The piece of it that I think you have to recognize is that you've got a fundamental decision to make here on health care, which is 16 percent of the economy, going north fast, probably headed to 20 percent of our total economy. Do you think the solution to providing more and better health care is, one, that we should have more government solutions involved, or should there be more market-based solutions involved? And I think clearly the answer here is you need more market forces in health care. That's what we need to do. 

(APPLAUSE) Instead, you've got the Democrats doing a step-by-step march toward
a socialized one government-pay system. And they're very happy to do it that
way. But we can get better health care going this way. And we can hold the
price of it down and not bust the federal treasury at the same time. We can
get (inaudible).


 Thank you. George, I think you're seeing clearly from the discussion here and this week that words of a president matter. When Ronald Reagan says, "Mr. Gorbachev, bring down this wall," that mattered. When he called the Soviet Union an evil empire, that mattered. Words of our leader matter, and you have to matter within the context of where we are. We are in a generational conflict with militant Islamists. That's where we are. We are at war. We're a nation at war. I think we have to be very realistic about this war. We have a number of allies in the Islamic world. We have a number of allies around the world. It is something important what we say and the direction we go. I think we push democracy, but I think we have to be realistic in the places that we push and at the time we push it. You push democracy in Pakistan or Egypt right now, you're going to get a radicalized government in Pakistan, a radicalized government in Egypt and you're going to have a nuclear-weaponed, radical government in Pakistan. 


 That's why we have to be realistic... 


 George, I wouldn't delegate things to the vice president. But I would involve the vice president in a lot of things. But I think there's a key point here to look at. One is that Dick Cheney came in with a lot of experience. He came in with a lot of experience on defense, foreign policy issues. And I think the president over-relied on that. I think Dick Cheney has done an admirable job. I think the president's over-relied upon that. I think you need somebody coming into the presidency that's had foreign policy experience, that's worked on these national and global issues, so that they don't have to depend on the vice president as much. I think you should have a highly competent person as vice president that can step in at any time and can provide you high-quality information, reflection, wisdom that's needed in that job, but not somebody that takes over the job. 

(APPLAUSE)


 George? 


 I think we need to move toward an optional flat tax. I think we need to go to flat taxes. 

(APPLAUSE) And let me just say why here. We've got a problem with the current
tax code and we've tried to take it out. And every time you try to take it
out, everybody comes to defend it that has something in it. You can put an
optional flat tax in the tax code and let people choose. And it will create
economic growth. That's why 16 countries have already gone to a flat tax: It
creates growth. Growth is the key for us in this economy for us to get things
moving forward.


 Probably not telling my wife and kids and parents I love them enough and just being more focused, too many times, on me instead of on them and on others is probably the biggest mistake I've made. 


 Rebuilding the family. You know, in Washington, D.C., right now, 63 percent of the children are born out of wedlock. Nationwide, the number is 36 percent. You can raise a good child in that setting, but it gets more difficult. The best place is between a mom and a dad bonded together for life. I would stand for life. And I would appoint the next justice I hope would be the voting decision to overturn Roe v. Wade. 

(APPLAUSE)


