

 My name is Mitt Romney. I'm a husband, a father, a grandfather, a neighbor and formerly governor of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. 


 Well, the question is kind of a non sequitur, if you will, and what I mean by that - or a null set. And that is that if you're saying let's turn back the clock, and Saddam Hussein had opened up his country to IAEA inspectors, and they'd come in and they'd found that there were no weapons of mass destruction, had Saddam Hussein, therefore, not violated United Nations resolutions, we wouldn't be in the conflict we're in. But he didn't do those things, and we knew what we knew at the point we made the decision to get in. I supported the president's decision based on what we knew at that time. I think we were underprepared and underplanned for what came after we knocked down Saddam Hussein. 

By the way, Harry Reid was wrong. We did not lose the war in Iraq. And that's
not the sort of thing you say when you have men and women in harm's way.

We did, however, not do a great job after we knocked down Saddam Hussein and
won the war to take him down, and his military. And at this stage, the right
thing for us to do is to see if we can possibly stabilize the central
government in Iraq so that they can have stability and so we can bring our
troops home as soon as possible.

Not to do that adds an enormous potential risk that the whole region could be
embroiled in a regional conflict.


 Well, I answered the question by saying it's a - it's a non sequitur, it's a null set kind of question, because you can go back and say, if we knew then what we know now, by virtue of inspectors having been let in and giving us that information, by virtue of if Saddam Hussein had followed the U.N. resolutions, we wouldn't be having this - this discussion. So it's a hypothetical that I think is an unreasonable hypothetical. And the answer is, we did what we did; we did the right thing based on what we knew at that time. I think we made mistakes following the conduct - or the collapse of Saddam's government. 


 You don't take options off the table. But what you do is stand back and say, "What's going on here?" Do you see what's happening in Sudan and Afghanistan, in Iraq and Iraq? All over the world we're seeing the same thing happening, and that is, people are testing the United States of America. 

And we have to make sure they understand that we're not arrogant. We have
resolve. And we have the strength to protect our interests and to protect
people who love liberty. For that to happen, we're going to have not just to
attack each one of these problems one by one, but say, "How do we help move
the world of Islam so that the moderate Muslims can reject the extreme?" And
for that to happen, we're going to have to have a strong military and an
effort to combine with our allies in such a way -


 \- that we combine for an effort to help move Islam towards modernity. 

That's what we're going to have to do instead of looking at each theater one
by one and saying: We'll bomb here, we'll attack here, we'll go to Sudan.


 I watched the Democrats. They don't think there's a war on terror. 


 There is a war going on, and we need a broad response to make sure that these people have a different vision. 


 Well, he's my friend. He campaigned for me two times and I consider him a friend. I'm not going to make this a matter of personal politics. It's an issue that's way too important for that. 

My view is that we should enforce immigration laws. And this bill,
unfortunately, has at least one provision that's a real problem. It's the Z
visa. And what it allows is people who've come here illegally to stay here for
the rest of their lives. Not necessarily as citizens; they have to wait 13
years to become citizens. That's not the point.

The point is, every illegal alien, almost every one, under this bill gets to
stay here. That's not fair to the millions and millions of people around the
world that would love to come here -


 \- and join with family members, bring skill and education that we need. It's simply not fair to say those people get put ahead in the line of all the people who've been waiting legally to come to this country. 


 Well, one is to enforce the law as it exists. The law that was passed in 1986 - (applause) - the law passed in 1986 asked for us to secure the border and said also to put in place an employment verification system. Neither one of those was done. So let's make sure that we enforce the law as it exists. 

And if you want to improve this bill, well, one thing you could do to make it
better is to take that Z visa and make it temporary, instead of a permanent
right to stay in America. That's simply just not fair. (Applause.)


 Well, people can look at my record. I'm not going to apologize for the fact that I became pro-life. I served as governor; as I was governor, as we were debating cloning and as we were debating also embryo farming, I said Roe v. Wade has gone too far. I want to make it very clear that I'm pro-life. People here in New Hampshire have seen that I've fought for life. I fought also for a traditional marriage, to keep taxes down, to have education in our schools that includes abstinence education. I've fought for English immersion in our schools. I know that I've got conservative credentials, and that's one of the things that brings me to this race. 

But there's something bigger in conservatism that I don't think we've spoken
about, and that is that America is a land of opportunity, and our future is
going to be far brighter than our past, not just as we overcome these
challenges, but as we take advantage of the new opportunity of the 21st
century.


 Well, President Kennedy some time ago said he was not a Catholic running for president; he was an American running for president. And I'm happy - a proud member of my faith. 

You know, I think it's a fair question for people to ask, "What do you
believe?" And I think, as you want to understand what I believe, you could
recognize that the values that I have are the same values you'll find in
faiths across this country.

I believe in God, believe in the Bible, believe Jesus Christ is my savior. I
believe that God created man in his image. I believe that the freedoms of man
derive from inalienable rights that were given to us by God. And I also
believe that there are some pundits out there that are hoping that I'll
distance myself from my church so that that'll help me politically, and that's
not going to happen. (Applause.)


 Well, first of all, Rudy Giuliani is right in terms of an Apollo project to get us energy independent, and the effects of that on global warming are positive. It's a no-regrets policy. It's a great idea. 

Secondly, with regards to big oil, big oil is making a lot of money right now,
and I'd like to see them using that money to invest in refineries. Don't
forget that when companies earn profit, that money is supposed to be
reinvested in growth. And our refineries are old. Someone said to me - Matt
Simons, an investment banker down in Houston, he said our refineries today are
rust with paint holding them up. And we need to see these companies, if
they're making that kind of money, reinvest in capital equipment.

But let's not forget, where the money is being made this year is not just -
throughout these years is not just in Exxon and Shell and the major oil
companies, it's in the countries that own this oil. Russia last year took in
$500 billion by selling oil. Ahmadinejad, Putin, Chavez - these people are
getting rich off of people buying too much oil. And that's why we have to
pursue, as a strategic imperative, energy independence for America. And it
takes that Apollo project. It also takes biodiesel, biofuel, ethanol -


 \- cellulosic ethanol, nuclear power, more drilling in ANWR. We have to be serious also about efficiency - 


 \- and that's going to allow us to become energy independent. 


 No, actually, when I first heard of the "Don't ask, don't tell" policy, I thought it sounded awfully silly. I didn't think that would be very effective. And I turned out to be wrong. It's been the policy now in the military for what, 10, 15 years, and it seems to be working. And I agree with what Mayor Giuliani said: that this is not the time to put in place a major change, a social experiment, in the middle of a war going on. I wouldn't change it at this point. We can look at down the road. 

But it does seem to me that we have much bigger issues as a nation we ought to
be talking about than that policy right now.


 This is one of those situations where I go back to my record as governor. I didn't pardon anybody as governor because I didn't want to overturn a jury. 

But in this case, you have a prosecutor who clearly abused prosecutorial
discretion by going after somebody when he already knew that the source of the
leak was Richard Armitage. He'd been told that. So HE went on a political
vendetta.


 It's worth looking at that. I will study it very closely, if I'm lucky enough to be president, and I'd keep that option open. 


 Well, I want to talk to the people, not just to those conservatives who are critical, and the people of this country recognize that they got some real concerns in health care. And I learned after I was governor a short of period of time, I talked to people, and they say, "If I lose my job, I'm worried I'll lose my insurance, and my insurance premiums are getting higher and higher and higher." 

And I talked to small business people, and they said, "I can't afford the
policies anymore."

And we said: You know what? We got to find a way to get everybody insured. And
the last thing we want is to have the government take over health care,
because anything they take over gets worse, not better. We're not going to
turn to Washington, because Washington makes a mess. Washington's all talk.

We said: We need to find a way to get everybody in our state insured with
private insurance. The half a million who didn't have insurance, all the
people worried that if they lost their job, they'd lose insurance - we said we
got to find a way to get them insured without raising taxes, without a
government takeover, and that's what we did.


 It relies on personal responsibility. 

This is a big issue for this country. Every Democrat up there's talking about
a form of socialized medicine, government takeover, massive tax increase. We
have to stand up and not just talk about it.


 We're going to have insurance for all of our citizens they can afford, that's theirs, that's portable. 


 They never have to worry about losing it. 


 That's the answer. 


 Let me make it real clear - I'm not anti-immigrant. I love immigrants. I love legal immigrants coming to our country. I'm happy to communicate to them, and I hope they vote for me. 

And I'm happy to have people all over the country, and I'm going to reach out
to them in any language I can to have them - have them vote for me and
understand why I'm going to support making this a great land.

I'll tell you as well, I very firmly believe that we have to make sure that we
enforce our borders, that we have an employment verification system, and that
those people who have come here illegally do not get an advantage to become
permanent residents, they do not get a special pathway. That's a mistake.
That's the problem I have with the bill that - the Kennedy-McCain bill. That's
a mistake, in my view.

Now, let me tell you what I think about a broader issue. We've talked tonight
about all of the issues as they relate to the problems that we have, and I
understand that. But we have extraordinary opportunities. What the Republican
party has to stand for is more than solving problems. In the 19th century, the
new frontier for us was the American West. In the 20th century, it was Europe
- selling products to Europe and North America. Now Asia has come out of
poverty. A billion people -


 \- who were steeped in poverty are coming out of poverty. They're consumers. We can sell products to them, medicines, technology - 


 \- energy. We are a party of the future, and we have to stop worrying about the problems and thinking we can't deal with those. We have to focus on the future and our opportunity to make America a great place for our kids and grandkids. Thank you. 


 It's going - (interrupted by applause) - 


 It's going from small bore to large bore. Yes, of course it's spending, and yes we're going to have to deal with all the issues and the problems we have. But the Republican Party is a - is a party of the future and with a vision. 

Ronald Reagan had a vision for where he was going to take America. We have to
once again take people forward, and that vision is the new frontier of the
21st century.


 Our products and services can lead the world. 


 The model for how the Republican Party wins, and wins moderates, Democrats, Independents, conservatives, is who? Ronald Reagan. He did it. 

Ronald Reagan won in Massachusetts both times he ran. How did he do that? He
had a stool he sat on that had three legs. One was a strong military; and
today a strong military needs more troops, more funding to make sure that our
troops are cared for in the battlefield with the equipment they need, and our
veterans receive the care they need when they get home.


 Strong military, strong economy, keeping our taxes down, and strong families and strong family values. 


 That's the stool with all three legs. 


 And one more thing, optimism and a vision for the future. 


 Well, unfortunately, Ron, you need a thorough understanding of what radical jihad is, what the movement is, what its intent is, where it flows from. And the fact is that it's trying to bring down not just us, but it's trying to bring down all moderate Islamic governments, Western governments around the world, as we just saw in Pakistan. 


 But let's step back with regards to the president. 

The president is not arrogant. The president does not subject -- or is not
subject to a bunker mentality. The president has acted out of his desire to
keep America safe.

And we owe him a debt of gratitude for keeping this country safe over the last
six years.

(CROSSTALK)


 Let me continue with my own thoughts on the issue of do we follow his policy or create a new one. 

He did the right thing in responding and reacting to the fact that we got
attacked. And people now recognize: You attack America and there is a
response.

But we're going to have to move our strategy from simply being a respond to
military threat with military action to an effort that says we're going to use
our military and nonmilitary resources -- nonmilitary resources -- combined
with other nations who are our friends to help move the world of Islam toward
modernity and moderation.

It's something that former Prime Minister Aznar of Spain spoke about. The new
mission for NATO and for other nations is to help provide the rule of law,
education that's not through madrassas, agricultural and economic policies
that can be instilled in various Islamic countries, so the Muslims are able to
reject the extreme and the terrorists.


 We can help them. Our military's going to be needed. 

We do need -- I agree with what the mayor said -- we need to add to our
military by at least 100,000 troops. But the answer is to move now to a second
phase, a phase of helping Muslims become so strong they can reject the
extreme.


 Ron, you're reading their propaganda. You're reading their propaganda. 


 I'd read their writings. 


 I'd read what they write to one another. And that's why when someone like Sayyid Qutb lays out the philosophy of radical jihadism and says, "We want to kill..." 


 Let me complete. 

Wants to kill Anwar Sadat, when there's the assassination of Anwar Sadat, it
has nothing to do with us.

The reason -- why did they kill Madam Bhutto? It has nothing to do with us.
This has to do with a battle that is going on within the world of Islam, of
radical, violent jihadists trying to bring down all moderate Islamic people
and nations and replace them with a religious caliphate.

(CROSSTALK)


 And we are doing our very best to help support the voices of moderation. 

They tried it in the Philippines.


 Charlie, I get to respond to that. 


 A number of things. 

I disagree with the governor writing in Foreign Affairs magazine that the
president's administration suffers from an arrogant bunker mentality.


 I did read the article, the whole article. I read the entire article and I thought it was -- well, I won't make any further comments. It was not... 

(CROSSTALK)


 Before -- I got a copy of the article and read the article. And in the headline of the article, it said, "The Bush..." 


 No, no, hold on. 

John, no, I didn't. Sorry. But I read his.

(LAUGHTER)


 And number two... 

(UNKNOWN): What about mine?


 Number two -- number two, I did support the surge. It was Senator McCain, of all of us, who was out fighting for the surge. He right on that. 

On the same day the president announced the surge, I also, having spoken that
day with Fred Kagan, who's one of the brilliant theorists in this regard, I
laid out my plan that I thought made sense -- actually even before the
president's speech -- calling for additional troops. I called for a different
number.

So I also supported the surge from the very beginning.


 But, look, you know, Governor, don't try and characterize my position. Of course, this war... 


 You know, we're wise to talk about policies and not to make personal attacks. 


 No, that's... 


 I do not support and have never supported a timed withdrawal, so that's wrong, Governor. 

You know, it's really helpful if you talk about your policies and the things
you believe, and let me talk about my policies.

And my policy is, I've never talked about a timed withdrawal with a date
certain for us to leave. That's not the case. Simply wrong.

I've also supported the troop surge, Governor, and I supported it on the same
day the president brought it forward.

And the critical thing here is for us to stand together and to say, "I think
we do agree with the troop surge. We believe that the troops surge is going to
make an enormous difference for the world and protect us from the
establishment of safe havens from which Al Qaida could launch attacks against
us."


 Is it such a puzzle? 


 Is it such a mystery as to why they attack America? 


 They're not going after Luxembourg. 

(LAUGHTER)


 We're the strongest nation in the world. 


 No, of course not. 


 Charlie, when I sat down with my family and had the discussion about whether or not to get into this race, we went around the room and each one of my five sons and five daughters-in-law expressed their views. And it's because of them and because of my concern about the future of America that I'm in this race. 

I'm convinced that America is the greatest nation on Earth, that we are a good
nation and a strong nation. And we are safe and prosperous in part because of
our greatness and our strength.

I'm concerned, though, right now, we face challenges of such an unprecedented
nature that unless we deal with them honestly and effectively, America will
become less of a nation than it needs to be to preserve the peace here and the
peace around the world.


 And I believe it's essential for America to stand for principles of an eternal nature. 

I think at the heart of our strength is the family. I don't think there's
anything more important to the future of America than the work that's going on
within the four walls of the American home.

I think we have to strengthen America's families. I think we have to have good
schools and good health care for them, moms and dads tending to the needs of
kids, that we have to have better schools and better health care.

I believe, also, that this nation has to have a strong and vibrant economy. I
don't think we can lead the world unless we have the leading economy. And
finally a strong military to keep us safe.

So, my overriding principle is keeping America the strongest nation on earth.
And there'll be a lot of choices and pulls and tugs in different directions,
but keeping America strong through all those elements, through our families
and our values, through our economy and its vibrancy, and through our
military, is what is essential to me for the future of this land.


 A lot of people have ideas about health care and improving health care. We took the ideas and actually made them work in our state, as people in New Hampshire know. We put in place a plan that gets every citizen in our state health insurance, and it didn't cost us new money. And it didn't require us to raise taxes. 

What we found was, it was less expensive or no more expensive to help
individuals who had been uninsured by their own private policy than it had
been for us to give out free care at the hospital.

And since we put our plan in place last April, we've now had 300,000 people
who were uninsured sign up for this insurance, private insurance.

And where the doctor -- good doctor was wrong is that it's true the insurance
companies don't want to sell policies to one person at a time. It's expensive.

We established what we called a connector, a place where individuals could go
to buy policies from any company, and that connector would in turn send their
premiums on to those companies.

So the economics of scale existed. And as a result of what we did, the
premiums for health insurance for an individual buying insurance went from
$350 a month to $180 a month, with lower deductibles and now with prescription
drugs.


 The answer... 


 Let me just -- I just -- I want to underline this. 

We don't have to have government take over health care to get everybody
insured. That's what the Democrats keep on hanging out there.

The truth is, we can get everybody insured in a free market way. We don't need
Hillary-care or socialized medicine.


 No, no, I like mandates. The mandates work. 


 Let me -- let me -- oh, absolutely. Let me tell you what kind of mandates I like, Fred, which is this. If it weren't... 


 Here's my view: If somebody -- if somebody can afford insurance and decides not to buy it, and then they get sick, they ought to pay their own way, as opposed to expect the government to pay their way. 


 And that's an American principle. That's a principle of personal responsibility. 

So, I said this: If you can afford to buy insurance, then buy it. You don't
have to, if you don't want to buy it, but then you got to put enough money
aside that you can pay your own way, because what we're not going to do is
say, as we saw more and more people...


 Yes, we said, look, if people can afford to buy it, either buy the insurance or pay your own way; don't be free-riders and pass on the cost to your health care to everybody else, because right now... 


 No, the government is going to stop... 


 They refused to pay your -- let's go back, Fred. What's your view? If somebody... 


 OK. Well, I'll answer your question, you answer mine. 


 If somebody is making, let's say $100,000 a year, and doesn't have health insurance, and they show up at the hospital, and they need a $1,000 repair of some kind for something that's gone wrong. And they say, "Look, I'm not insured, I'm not going to pay." Do you think they should pay or not? 


 No, actually... 


 It actually applies to people at three-times federal poverty. They pay for their own policy. At less than three-times federal poverty, we help them buy a policy, so everybody is insured, and everybody is able to buy a policy that is affordable for them. 

The question is this, again, if someone could afford a policy and they choose
not to buy it, should they be responsible for paying for their own care?

Or should they be able to go to the hospital and say, "You know what? I'm not
insured. You ought to pay for it."

What we found was, one-quarter of the uninsured in my state were making
$75,000 a year or more. And my view is they should either buy insurance or
they should pay their own way with a health savings account or some other
savings account.


 I think my plan is a good plan that should be adopted by other states. I wouldn't tell every state... 


 I would not mandate at the federal level that every state do what we do. But what I would say at the federal level is, "We'll keep giving you these special payments we make if you adopt plans that get everybody insured." I want to get everybody insured. 


 In Governor Schwarzenegger's state, he's got a different plan to get people insured. I wouldn't tell him he has to do it my way. 

But I'd say each state needs to get busy on the job of getting all our
citizens insured. It does not cost more money.


 OK, don't leave me. Don't send the pharmaceutical companies into the big bad guys. 


 No, actually they're trying to create products to make us well and make us better, and they're doing the work of the free market. 

And are there excesses? I'm sure there are, and we should go after excesses.
But they're an important industry to this country.

But let me note something else, and that is the market will work. And the
reason health care isn't working like a market right now is you have 47
million people that are saying, "I'm not going to play. I'm just going to get
free care paid for by everybody else." That doesn't work.

Number two, the buyer doesn't have information about what the cost or quality
is, or different choices they could have. If you take the government out of it
to a much greater extent, you'd get it to work like a market and it will rein
in cost.


 I disagree fundamentally with the idea that the 12 million people who've come here illegally should all be allowed to remain in the United States permanently, potentially some of them applying for citizenship and becoming citizens, others just staying permanently. 

I think that is a form of amnesty, and that it's not appropriate. We're a
nation of laws.

(CROSSTALK)


 Our liberty is based upon being a nation of laws. I would welcome those people to get in line with everybody else who wants to come here permanently. 


 But there should be no special pathway to permanent residency or citizenship for those that have come here illegally. 

I welcome legal immigration. Of course we need to secure the border. We need
to have an employment verification system with a card to identify who's here
legally and not legally. We need to have employer sanctions that hire people
that then don't have the legal card.

But with regards to those already here, it is simply not right and unfair to
say they're going to all get to stay, where there are people around the world
who've been waiting in line to come to this country. They should have the
first chance.

(CROSSTALK)


 Yes, absolutely, which is what he describes is technically true, which is his plan does not provide amnesty because he charges people $5,000 to be able to stay. And that, technically... 


 Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Let me have a chance. 

(CROSSTALK)


 Rudy, let me have a chance to finish, OK? Then you'll get your chance. 

I saw your plan, along with Senator Cornyn's plan and the Bush plan; I said
they were all reasonable. And I said I would study them and decide which one
to endorse, and I endorsed none of them, as you know, Senator.

Number two, your plan, I said, is not technically amnesty because it provides
for a penalty for people to be able to stay...


 OK. Would you describe what else it has, besides a penalty? 


 OK, great. So it has a... 


 Fine. Unless you pay $5,000... 


 No, no, no, no. I get a chance to respond to this. 

I'm sorry. I'm sorry.


 I don't describe your plan as amnesty in my ad. I don't call it amnesty. 

What I say is -- and you just described what most people would say is a form
of amnesty. Yes, they pay $5,000, their background is checked, they have to
learn English.

But your view is everybody who's come here illegally today, other than
criminals, would be allowed -- when they speak English and get $5,000 payment
and they get a background check, they're allowed to stay forever.


 That's your plan, and that plan, in my view, is not appropriate. 

Those people should be invited to get in line outside the country with
everybody else who wants to come here, but they should not be given a special
right to stay here...


 ... for the rest of their lives. 


 Are they sent home? 


 Are they sent home? Are they sent home? 


 The last bill you put forward... 


 I'm sorry -- the last bill... 


 Senator, the last bill you put forward... 


 No, that was quoted in A.P. It happened to be wrong. 

Let me -- let me -- let me...

(LAUGHTER)


 It was -- that does happen from time to time. But let me -- it does actually. 


 Senator, is there a way to have this about issues and not about personal attacks? I hope so, because I think we have some differences in issues. 


 And let me tell you, the issue that's at stake here is, do the people who come here illegally, the 12 million -- are they allowed to stay in this country the rest of their life? 

And the final bill you put forward in the United States Senate was...


 Can I complete? 


 I'm sorry, there was a Z visa. The Z visa was given to everybody... 

(CROSSTALK)


 Let's not divert. 


 The answer is no. The answer is no. 

So, here's how my plan works.

One, it says to those 12 million people, they do not have the right, as they
would under the final Senate plan, to receive a Z visa, which was renewable
indefinitely. That meant these people could stay in the country forever. That
was what the plan did, and that's why talk radio and the American people went
nuts.


 Senator, you look up your Z visa, it is renewable indefinitely. Every legal -- every illegal alien got to stay in the country forever, other than those that committed crimes. 


 I thought you said that wasn't amnesty. 


 Charlie, can we just underscore, we're talking about illegal immigration? 


 And I think every person on this stage wants the community to understand that legal immigration, we value. It's great for the country. We welcome legal immigration, every single one of us. No difference on that. 

We get twisted on this outside.


 We are very much in favor of legal immigration. It's a great source of vitality for our country. 


 Well, we have very different views on a whole series of issues. 


 And I could take you through one by one. 

One would be health care, for instance. He wants the government to take over
health care, spend hundreds of billions of dollars of new money for health
insurance for everyone. That'll be -- that'll break the bank.

If you think -- as the comedian said, P.J. O'Rourke, if you think health care
is expensive now, just wait until it's free. All right. So that's not the
right direction.

So we can talk about issues. But the biggest difference I think -- and it's
going to be true for me and others who talk about it -- is that this is a time
when America wants change. Washington is broken. That was the message coming
out of Iowa. I've heard it across the country. Washington is broken, not just
the White House, not just Congress. Washington can't get the job done on
immigration, on lowering taxes, on fixing schools, on getting health care, on
overcoming radical jihad. They want change.

Barack Obama looked at several senators steeped in long history in the Senate
and completely blew them away in the Iowa caucus.


 It's a message of change. 

And when we sit down and talk about change -- Barack Obama and myself at that
final debate, as you are positing -- I can say, "Not only can I talk change
with you, I've lived it. In the private sector for 25 years, I brought change
to company after company. In the Olympics, it was in trouble. I brought
change. In Massachusetts, I brought change. I have done it. I have changed
things, and that experience is what America is looking for."

You look at that debate with Barack Obama. I'm looking forward to head-to-
head.


 May I make a comment? 

One -- one, it's -- the continued personal barbs are interesting but
unnecessary.


 But number three -- number two, Hillary Clinton and Bill Richardson and Senator Dodd and Senator Biden all made that same argument in Iowa. And Barack Obama blew them away. 

And if you think making that argument as a Republican, that you have more
experience and you've been around longer in the Senate, that that's somehow
going to -- and that you know the cloakroom, the Senate cloakroom, better than
he does, that's not going to work.


 You're going to have to have -- you're going to have to have a person... 

(LAUGHTER)


 America wants change. 


 We're going to have to deal with this in an honest way with the American people, and that is this is not something that's going to get solved in 10 years. We can't become energy independent in 10 years, but we can get ourselves on a track to do that, with all the ways that Senator McCain and Mayor Giuliani and Fred Thompson have described. We can get there. 


 It's going to require a far more substantial investment by our nation in energy technology. Right now, we spend about $4 billion a year on new sources of energy and energy efficiency. We're going to have to increase that dramatically. 

And American corporations, last year they spent more money defending tort
lawsuits than they spent on research and development. We're upside-down. The
future of a great nation like ours depends on leading the world in technology
and innovation, in energy in particular.

This has to be our highest domestic economic priority, get ourselves on a
track to become energy secure and energy dependent -- independent. We can do
that. It's within our grasp. But it's going to take reality rather than just
the political rhetoric we've seen over the last 25 years.

 Well, I'm certainly not going to project failure, and those kind of circumstances that you would suggest would be projecting failure. 

It is critical for us to remember that Iraq has to be considered in the
context of what's happening in the Middle East and throughout the world. There
is a global jihadist effort. Violent, radical jihadists want to replace all
the governments of the moderate Islamic states, replace them with a caliphate.
And to do that, they also want to bring down the West, in particular us.

And they've come together as Shi'a and Sunni and Hezbollah and Hamas and the
Muslim Brotherhood and al Qaeda with that intent. We have to recognize that
what we're doing in Iraq has enormous impact on what's going to happen in this
global struggle, and that's why it's important for us to understand that if we
were to just walk out precipitously, we could conceivably see the border with
Turkey be destabilized by virtue of the Kurdish effort, we could have the
Iranians take over the Shi'a south, and perhaps most frightening, you could
have al Qaeda play a dominant role among the Sunnis and then have a setting
where you'd have something far worse than Afghanistan on their hands.

And so we recognize that it's critical for us to provide the stability to
allow a central government to survive and thrive.


 I want to make it very clear that I'm not going to raise taxes. 

As governor of Massachusetts, I made it very clear there, and I did not raise
taxes. We faced a huge budget gap, and I went in and said, you know, what? I
know some people want to raise taxes, but that's going to hurt working
families and scare away jobs. I recognize that raising taxes could also lead
to a slowdown in our economy, and so we didn't do it. We balanced our budget,
and that's exactly what I'll do with the federal government.

They key thing you have to consider, as you look at what's happening in the
federal government, is that Washington is broken. We need to have fundamental
change in the way business in Washington is carried out. What that means is
we're going to have to have leadership that can reorganize the government.
We're going to have about 40 percent of the government employees turn over in
the next couple of terms. And if we can -- we can reduce the employment there,
but more importantly, is to go through all the agencies, all the departments,
all the programs and cut out the unnecessary and the wasteful.

We're also going to have to do something we talk about on in Iraq. We all
talked about benchmarks. Well, how about benchmarks in Washington? Let's lay
out what we're going to get done, and instead of just talking about the same
old same old, let's streamline and make Washington more efficient.


 Well, let's get the record straight. First of all, there's no question that I support Second Amendment rights, but I also support an assault weapon ban. An in the -- with regards to gay rights, I have always been somebody who opposes discrimination. But I also consistently feel that it's critical to have marriage as a relationship between one man and one woman. 

Look, I've been governor in a pretty tough state. You've heard of blue states.
If you ever bought a suit and you look at it and you can't tell if it's blue
or black, that's how blue Massachusetts is. And in that state I've had to
stand up for life, and I have. I've had to stand up for traditional marriage,
and I have.

In that very difficult state, I stood to make sure that we could have English
immersion in our schools, because I think kids should be taught in English. I
fought for the death penalty. I fought for abstinence education.

In the toughest of states, I made the toughest decisions and did what was
right for America. I have conservative values.

I have the kind of leadership that will allow America to build upon the same
kind of reputation and heritage that we got from our conservative founders in
this party.


 Well, obviously, a terrible circumstance that you described; something of that nature, it just makes you sick. And I can't imagine my heart not being rent by virtue of having a circumstance like that presented to me. 

I can tell you that I've looked at this long and hard. I've always been
personally pro-life. I've taught that to others, it's been part of my faith.
The question for me was: What should government do in this kind of setting?
And the Supreme Court stepped in and took a decision, and I said I'd support
that decision. And then I watched the impact of that decision as I was
governor of Massachusetts. And when we came to debating cloning and embryo
farming and we saw human life, human life rack after rack that's going to be
experimented upon and then disposed, I said Roe v. Wade has gone to such an
extent that we've cheapened the value of human life. And I believe that a
civilized society has to respect the sanctity of human life.

And what I'm saying is that, in my view, the people should make this decision,
not the court.


 Well, my view is this. People should have no advantage by having come here illegally. 


 I am going to tell them to go home, but they start by beginning the process of applying for citizenship. But I do not believe -- or applying for permanent residency. They're not going to be barred from doing that, but they do not get any advantage by having come here illegally. That's the key part of what I objected to in McCain-Kennedy. 

McCain-Kennedy, what it did is said that people who are here illegally get a
special pathway. They're not like all the other immigrants in the world that
want to come to this great country; they get a special pathway. That's what's
wrong about it. If you're here illegally, you should not have a special
pathway to become a permanent resident.

My view, you have to secure the border, number one, have an employment
verification system, number two, and number three, say to those that are there
illegally, get in line with everybody else; you're not going to have a special
doorway, any particular advantage, by having come here illegally, to become a
permanent resident.

And my fear is that McCain-Kennedy would do to immigration what McCain-
Feingold has done to campaign finance and money in politics, and that's bad.
(Applause.)


 Yeah, first of all, let's make sure that we understand that the key in electing the next president is to find somebody who will make sure that that scenario doesn't ever happen, and the key to that is prevention. 

We've all spent a lot of time talking about what happens after the bomb goes
off. The real question is, how do you prevent the bomb from going off? And
that's what I spent my time doing as a governor over the last four years, and
serving on the Homeland Security Advisory Council. And that means intelligence
and counterterrorism.

Now we're going to -- you said the person's going to be in Guantanamo. I'm
glad they're at Guantanamo. I don't want them on our soil. I want them on
Guantanamo, where they don't get the access to lawyers they get when they're
on our soil. I don't want them in our prisons. I want them there.

Some people have said, we ought to close Guantanamo. My view is, we ought to
double Guantanamo. We ought to make sure that the terrorists -- (applause) --
and there's no question but that in a setting like that where you have a
ticking bomb that the president of the United States -- not the CIA
interrogator, the president of the United States -- has to make the call. And
enhanced interrogation techniques have to be used -- not torture but enhanced
interrogation techniques, yes.


 Sure, a number -- quite a few, actually. 

And as Senator McCain did, as he mentioned the flag issue -- I have issues
that take me in the same direction. One is No Child Left Behind. I've taken a
position where, once upon a time, I said I wanted to eliminate the Department
of Education. That was my position when I ran for Senate in 1994. That's very
popular with the base.

As I've been a governor and seen the impact that the federal government can
have holding down the interest of the teachers' unions and instead putting the
interests of the kids and the parents and the teachers first, I see that the
Department of Education can actually make a difference. So I supported No
Child Left Behind. I still do. I know there are a lot in my party that don't
like it, but I like testing in our schools. I think it allows us to get better
schools, better teachers; allows us to let our kids have the kind of hope that
they ought to have.

I think, by the way, the civil rights issue of our time is not what's going on
on this stage right here, but what's going on in the schools in the inner
cities of America, because the kids are not getting the education they need
for the jobs of tomorrow.

And so I'm very proud of the position I've taken. I support the president in
that regard, and that's where I stand.


 You know, the only question I have for Senator Thompson is, why the hurry? Why not take some more time off? (Laughter.) Maybe January, February might be a better time to make a final decision about getting in this race. 

But for all of us, we're going to welcome him into the race. He's going to
bring a lot to it. He's a great personality. He'll have new ideas. I think
he's going to bring more entertainment and vigor and ideas to the Republican
platform, so I welcome him into this. But I agree with all those that have
spoken, there's nothing like getting to know the folks in New Hampshire and
Iowa, South Carolina and Michigan.

In New Hampshire and Iowa alone over this last year, I have done 462 events --
town meetings, one-on-one meetings -- and that's the way to get to know
people. (Applause.)


 Well, Chris, first of all, with regards to front lawns, people don't go to their contractors and inspect their -- their ID cards of their employees. 

Secondly with regards to sanctuary cities, the governors aren't responsible
for mayors who are not following the law. And actually in my case, I -- as
soon as I learned about it, a program in the department of -- of ICE, that we
could have our state police authorized to enforce the law, I did just that, so
that in sanctuary cities in our state and non-sanctuary cities, the law would
be enforced.

But this is a place where Mayor Giuliani and I just simply disagree.

I think we should reduce federal funding to cities that call themselves
sanctuary cities. I think saying, as he did, if you happen to be an
undocumented alien, we want you in New York, we'll protect you in New York --
I think that contributed to 3 million illegals in this country becoming 12
million illegals coming into this country.

And I also disagree on the issue of -- of what I'll call amnesty. And that is,
I just don't think that you say to people who've come here illegally that if
you work here we're going to sign you up. That's the wrong answer. Amnesty is
not the right answer for this -- this problem. (Cheers, applause.)


 First of all, the Z visa that was offered in that Senate bill let everybody who's here illegally, other than criminals, stay here for the rest of their lives. And that many not be technically amnesty, but it is certainly amnesty, in fact. 

I was at the San Diego border and met with our Border Patrol agents. They told
me that more than a half of those that try and come across those fences are
able to do so. They said there's no way to stop them at the border, unless you
close down the magnets. And the magnets are sanctuary cities and having
employers sign people up that have come here illegally to do work here. You
have to end sanctuary cities. You have to cut back on federal funding to
cities that continue to call themselves sanctuary cities and welcome people
in, as New York has done. And you have to say to employers that hire people
illegally, "That's also going to be sanctioned." This is the way we're going
to have to finally end it.

And the other key point is this, which is having amnesty and saying to
individuals, as the mayor has said, if you come here and you're willing to
work here and pay taxes, we'll sign you up. That's not the right message.
We've got to enforce the law, welcoming legal immigration but ending illegal
immigration.


 Well, I think all of us -- I believe almost all of us in the room would say that we'd love to have an America that didn't have abortion. But the truth of the matter is that -- (applause) -- that's not what America is right now. That's not where the American people are right now, and so I'd like to see Roe v. Wade overturned and allow the states and the elected representatives of the people and the people themselves have the ability to put in place pro-life legislation. 

And of course it's our aspiration that at some point we'll see a nation that
doesn't have abortion. But until that time, I certainly believe that allowing
states and citizens and their representatives to fashion their own laws to
protect the sanctity of life is very, very important.

I recognize that for many people, that is considered an act of murder, to have
an abortion. It is without question the taking of a human life, and I believe
that a civilized society must respect the sanctity of a human life. But we
have two lives involved here: A mom and unborn child. We have to have concern
for both lives. And so the expression of our compassion and our consideration
-- and work to change hearts and minds -- and that's the way, in my view,
we'll ultimately have a society without abortion.


 I don't have a time frame that I've announced. What I've indicated is that -- is very consistent with what the president is speaking about and what we're hearing from Iraq right now. And that is that the surge is apparently working. We're going to get a full report on that from General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker very soon. But the Center for Strategic and International Studies and Brookings have come back with positive reports. 

If the surge is working, then we're going to be able to start bringing back
our troop levels, slowly but surely, and play more of a support role over
time. Ultimately, down the road, I would anticipate that we're not going to
have a permanent presence in Iraq.

And we'll be in a standby mode in surrounding nations. But we've -- when we
consider moving to a support role and bringing, at some stage, our troop
levels back, we're going to be doing that from a position of strength, because
the surge has worked.

There's no question: It's essential for America to show that we are committed
to success in Iraq. Our men and women are the bravest and most patriotic in
the world, that are over there fighting. We deserve to give them the kind of
support they need to make this mission successful. (Applause.)


 I'm sorry. 


 I think you're going to begin to see, if the surge is working, and I think we're going to get that report very soon, that we're going to begin to slowly but surely pull back to a support role. But the timetable for that, I hope, will be as soon as possible. We all hope for that; we all hope for that. 

But the question of timetable will depend upon how successful the surge is.
And the key is we don't start pulling back troops. We don't go into a support
mode until we are successful with the surge and we are providing the security
and the stability that we anticipate for this country.

Chris.


 That's just what I said. 


 Chris, bring a few questions over this way! 


 Well, there is no comparison, of course. There's no question. But the honor that we have for men and women who serve in armed forces is a place of honor we will never forget, and nothing compares to it. People who are willing to put their life on the line for American freedom are in a league of their own, and we owe them their -- our respect. And the sacrifice they make is something we'll never forget. 

The issue -- and I think Congressman Tancredo hit the nail on the head. This
is not about broken pottery, and it's also not about just getting out because
we made a mistake. This is a global conflict going on. Radical, violent jihad.
This effort ranges from Indonesia, Nigeria, and through Europe and into
America, and this battlefield of Iraq is a place where we have to be
successful because the consequences of what will happen on this global
battlefield are enormous. And that's why it's so important for us to be
successful with the surge, and I agree, it looks successful. I certainly hope
it's going to be fully successful. And as we are able to do that, we're going
to see ourselves able to continue in our efforts to overwhelm jihad.

The key is this: We need a global strategy -- and on my website you'll see it
-- a global strategy to help us overcome jihad globally because this is the
threat which faces the entire civilized world.


 Yeah. 


 I'm going to wait -- 


 Well, you know, we haven't heard from General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker. I believe it's successful -- 


 \-- but I'm going to hold out until we hear the report. I'm going to give them the benefit of hearing that. 

I know there are some early reports that they're going to say it's successful,
and I certainly hope that's the case. But let's listen to their report.

And assuming success, let's start bringing our troops back when they feel it's
the right time to do so to make sure that we -- we move to the support stage
out of a posture of strength and not of a -- out of a posture of bowing to the
Democrats. The Democrats want to remove al-Maliki -- they want to remove the
head of the government and withdraw. That's a policy for chaos.


 No, of course not. We'd use the law to follow people who are teaching doctrines of terror and hate, and make sure that if they're doing that in a mosque, in a school, at a playground, wherever it's being done, we know what's going on. 

There's no question but that we're under threat from people who want to attack
our country in this global effort. And I know there's a lot of attention paid
to, if you will, trying to respond to what would happen if we were attacked,
and that's appropriate. We need to have first response up to -- up to the best
standards. But our focus has to be on preventing an attack, and preventing
attack means good intelligence work. It means if people are coming to this
country terrorizing or talking about terror in such a way that it could lead
to the violent death of Americans, we need to know about that, track them,
follow them, and make sure that in every way we can we know what they're doing
and where they're doing it. And if it means we have to go into a mosque to
wiretap or a church, then that's exactly where we're going to go because we're
going to do whatever it takes to protect the American people.

And I hear from time to time people say, hey, wait a second, we have civil
liberties we have to worry about. But don't forget the most important civil
liberty I expect from my government is my right to be kept alive, and that's
what we're going to have to do. (Applause.)


 Well, that's the first time I've heard that, Chris, but it's pretty good. As a matter of fact, a little exaggeration. The total fees raised were $260 million, and that's a big number. We had a $3 billion budget gap. The Democrats -- you probably know that Massachusetts is a bit of a Democratic state -- the Democrats wanted to raise taxes, I said no way. And in fact, we did not raise taxes on our citizens, and we lowered them across the state time and again. 

We put an investment tax credit permanently in place. We provided help to
senior citizens on real estate taxes. We changed the capital gains tax
increase to a capital gains tax refund. So I'm proud of what we were able to
do to lower taxes.

I'm also going to lower taxes for the American people. And that's the key
thing. Right now you can listen to the Democrats. Their pledge is clear.
They're going to raise taxes. I want to lower them, make the Bush tax cuts
permanent, kill the death tax once and for all -- (cheers, applause) -- and a
savings plan -- a savings plan -- a savings plan for middle-income Americans.
If you earn less than $200,000 a year, the new tax rate on interest, dividends
and capital gains ought to be absolutely zero. (Applause.)

And by the way, John Edwards has his own savings plan for the middle class. He
says you can save $250 a year tax-free. Whoop-de- do. That's not going to buy
you retirement. It's not going to buy you a house. And someone yelled out it's
not going to buy him a haircut, either. (Laughter, applause.)


 Well, clearly your hypothetical suggests that everything we've done up until this point and beyond didn't work, and there's a lot we can do to keep that scenario from occurring. But assuming that that has not worked and we've been unsuccessful and your hypothetical is real and it is all too possible, you're dealing with a nation that talks about genocide, it talks about Israel being a one- bomb state, and it is unacceptable for a nation that talks about genocide and contemplates using nuclear weaponry to have nuclear weapons. And as a result, we're going to have to do something else to persuade them not to go forward. 

What do you do next before you actually take up the military action? What you
do in action is this. The president meets with leaders, Republican and
Democrat, to make sure we're on the same page. We want to make sure that
Democrats sign up, that we're all part of this on a unified basis.

Number two --


 \-- number two -- well, my experience is being able to build consensus, and I'm not going to take that. I believe good Democrats love America just like good Republicans, and I'll find a way to get us to work together. 

Number two, you meet with our allies around the world and make sure we're on
the same page on this.

Number three, you work with the people on Arabian Peninsula, and you say to
them we want you to put some pressure on people like China, like Saudi Arabia.
They depend on your oil. We want you to put pressure on China to also be part
of it. Now we take the military option off the table. We hold in our hand --
when they see our military option in our hand, a possible blockade or possible
aerial strikes, they recognize we mean business, and that's going to -- that's
going to make them think twice and hopefully abandon their folly because it is
unacceptable to the world for us to have a nuclear Iran. And there's no price
of oil which would justify that outcome. (Applause.)


 It's everybody's job. It's inexcusable that Michigan is undergoing a one-state recession, that the rest of the country is growing and seeing low levels of unemployment, but Michigan is seeing ongoing high levels of unemployment, almost twice the national rate. Industry is shrinking here, jobs are going away. 

This is just unacceptable, and therefore, everyone's going to have to come
together to solve the problem. And that means from the president's standpoint,
the president's going to have to stand up and say: You know what? -- to the
auto industry -- the door's always open. We're going to work with you and make
sure that you have a listening hear and someone who will participate with
labor and with management.

Number two, we're going to make sure that we invest in technology and research
-- a lot of that relating to energy, fuels; automotive research like material
science to help boost Michigan once again. We're going to have to fix the
schools; as Newt Gingrich pointed out, 22 percent of Detroit kids don't -- or
excuse me -- 22 percent graduate from high school. That's unacceptable. We're
also going to have to do a better job keeping our taxes down. Jennifer
Granholm has made a big mistake by raising taxes. I was, frankly, a little
nervous to -- by being here tonight. I figured that she was going to put a tax
on the debate before we got finished. (Laughter, applause, cheers.)

And we're going to have to go work, as well, to make sure that there's a level
playing field around the world as we compete, to make sure that American goods
are pushing into other markets; that goods coming overseas aren't getting an
advantage as they do now with embedded taxes. There's a lot we can do to
strengthen Michigan.

And in some respects, what Michigan is seeing the entire nation is going to
see unless we take action now to get Michigan stronger.


 Well, we both agree with the need to cut taxes and have fought to do so. And I did so in my state too. We both believe in cutting back on spending as well. 

But if you want to cut taxes, you're going to have to cut spending. And the
best tool that a governor has and the best tool the president has had is a
line-item veto. And Mayor Giuliani took the line-item that the president had
all the way to the Supreme Court and took it away from the president of the
United States. I think that was a mistake.

He also fought to keep the commuter tax, which was a very substantial tax,
a(n) almost $400 tax on commuters coming into New York. And when it's all said
and done, if you're a New York taxpayer, city taxpayer, your state and city
tax combined could reach as high as 10 percent, and in our state, if you're a
Boston worker, it's going to be more like 5.3 percent.

So we both have worked real hard to get the taxes down, to get the spending
down, but I'm in favor of the line-item veto. I exercised it 844 times. Thank
heavens we had a line-item veto, and I would like to see it at the federal
government level as well. We need it.


 (Laughs.) I'm sorry. 


 It's a nice line, but it's bologna. Mayor, you got to check your facts. No taxes -- I did not increase taxes in Massachusetts; I lowered taxes, number one. 

Number two, the Club for Growth looked at our respective spending record. They
said my spending grew 2.2 percent a year; yours grew 2.8 percent a year.

But look, we're both guys that are in favor of keeping spending down and keep
taxes down. We're not far apart on that. The place we differ is on the line-
item veto. I'm in favor of the line-item veto. I had it, used it 844 times. I
want to see Libby Dole's line-item veto put in place, the president's proposal
to have it put in place. I'm in favor of the line-item veto. I'd have never
gone to the Supreme Court and said it's unconstitutional.


 I do not believe the line-item veto is -- properly structured is -- the president just last year introduced a line-item veto that is -- that passes constitutional muster. Elizabeth Dole did the same thing. I'm in favor of the line-item veto to make sure that the president is able to help cut out pork and waste. Washington is finally going to have to have a reduction in spending. Republicans got spending out of control. 


 That's -- (inaudible.) 


 That's what it was about. 


 Well, I believe in trade, but I believe in opening up markets to American goods and services. And it's been calculated that the average family in America is $9,000 a year richer because we have the ability to sell products around the world, and a lot of people in this country make their living making products that go around the world. 

But it's also true that the people who negotiate these agreements, the people
who sit down with the Chinese and sit down with the Mexicans and others, are
people, by and large, who've spent their life in politics, and the politicians
come together and try and understand how the economy works.

I think I'm probably the only guy on the stage who's spent most of his career
in the business world. I understand how the economy works. I understand how if
you make a certain adjustment in the agreement, it's going to have a huge
impact on the United States.

And so for instance, if we agree to sit down with China, I understand that if
we don't get real careful and protect patents and designs and technology, that
what we tend to sell the most of, those kinds of things, intellectual
property, is going to get stolen by the Chinese or by others, that we have to
recognize agreements have to be in our benefit, not just in their benefit. And
so as I look across the agreements we've made, I recognize we're going to have
to do a better job. We're going to have to have people who understand how the
business world works, how the economy works, and make sure that the playing
field really is level by having people that know something about the economy
and understand the business world being part of that effort.

I want to make sure that the American worker gets a fair shake. We need to
make sure that the Chinese begin to float their currency, and they protect our
designs and our patents and our technology. We need to make sure that the
American workers don't have to carry the burden of extra taxes as we sell our
products around the world. They come here without that tax embedded. We can do
a better job, and I want to do a better job for the American worker.

And by the way, this is key for Michigan. And for me, Michigan is personal.
I'm going to go to work to help Michigan. (Applause.)


 Of course you let a country invest in the United States, because we're going to have to stop thinking always in terms of defense and trying to keep other people out. The key is that America can compete around the world and win, and we do. In product after product, service after service, we're the best in the world. But we have to make sure that as we enter into agreements with other nations, we make sure that those agreements are in our benefit as well as theirs; usually that's the case, but not always, and in some cases it's not. 

We're going to make sure that our goods and services are sold around the
world, that they're not held up, that our technology is not stolen. And we're
going to make sure that America gets the best shake in these agreements, and
we -- and for heck -- you got to realize this country can compete with anyone
in the world, has before. We'll always -- we do not rein in -- put a moat
around ourselves. We've put down the drawbridge and say, "Let's go out and
compete."


 You sit down with your attorneys and tell you what you have to do, but obviously, the president of the United States has to do what's in the best interest of the United States to protect us against a potential threat. The president did that as he was planning on moving into Iraq and received the authorization of Congress. 


 You know, we're going to let the lawyers sort out what he needed to do and what he didn't need to do, but certainly what you want to do is to have the agreement of all the people in leadership of our government, as well as our friends around the world where those circumstances are available. 

But the key thing here is to make sure that we don't have to use military
action against Iran. That's what you hope to be able to do. And that's why
we're going to (have to ?) put a lot tougher sanctions on Iran, economic
sanctions, credit sanctions. We're also going to have to get serious about
treating Ahmadinejad like the rogue and the buffoon that he is.

And it was outrageous --


 \-- for the United Nations to invite him to come to this country. It was outrageous for Columbia to invite him to speak at their university. This is a person -- denied the Holocaust, a person who has spoken about genocide, is seeking the means to carry out. And it is unacceptable to this country to allow that individual to have the control of launching a nuclear weapon. 


 And so we will take the action necessary to keep that from happening. And I think each person on the stage, but certainly in my case I would make sure we would take the action necessary to keep Iran from having a nuclear weapon. 


 I believe in domestic supports for our agriculture industry. I don't want to see our food supply be in the same kind of a jeopardy situation that our energy supply is in. And clearly there's a responsibility of government to make sure that our farmers are treated on the same basis as farmers in Europe and other markets that we compete with. 

We're in the middle of the Doha Round, the WTO talks, and if we find a way to
bring down subsidies around the world, that'll be good news.

But with regards to energy -- and that's really the heart of what we're
describing here -- one side of this is, of course, the fear; the fear of the
fact that we face global warming, that we face serious competitive challenges
globally unless we become serious with getting prices of energy down. But the
other is the opportunity. It's a great opportunity for America to develop
technology to lead the world in energy efficiency as well as energy
production. And whether it's nuclear or liquefied coal, where we sequester the
CO2, far more fuel- efficient automobiles -- by the way, where bureaucrats
don't write the rules, but where business people come together and say let's
find a way to make sure that the American -- the domestic industry can thrive.
These are some of the incentives that have to be behind our policies with
regards to our investments --


 \-- in new technologies like ethanol. 


 First by being confident, not going out with a message of doom and gloom of all the problems we have, but instead pointing out that the future's going to be even brighter than our past, and I'm entirely convinced of that. 

This nation has everything it needs to succeed around the world and at home.
We have the heart of the American people, which is sound and alive and well.
We have technology, innovation, capital. We need to have leadership that'll
tell us the truth and actually lead. And vis-a-vis meeting with most likely
Hillary Clinton, I can't wait to talk about the fact that I spent my life in
the economy. I understand how jobs come and why they go. I know how to get a
health care plan not just talked about but actually implemented. I know how to
make sure that we keep our taxes down and our spending down. I know how to
help American companies do business around the world and stop those foreign
companies from coming in here unfairly. That's what I've done throughout my
career. I can't wait to debate with her, because I've done it; she's just
talked about it.


 Well, I don't believe in replacing what we have, but I believe in improving it. And the way we improve something is not by putting more government into it -- of course that's what Hillary Clinton wants to do; Hillary care is government gets in and tells people what to do from the federal government standpoint. In my view, instead, the right way for us to go is to bring in place the kind of market dynamics that make the rest of the economy so successful. 

So my plan gets everybody in America insured, takes the burden of free riders
off of our auto companies and everybody else, and says let's get everybody in
the system.

And to do that, we say, look, we're going to have states create their own
plans. We did it in our state, and it's working. We're not going to have the
federal government tell them how to do it.

Number two, we're not going to spend more money. Hillary Clinton's plan costs
$110 billion. Mine says, let's use the money we're already spending a little
more wisely.

And number three, instead of having the federal government give you government
insurance, Medicare and federal employee insurance, let's have private
insurance. Our solutions as Republicans have to be able to deal with the big
issue of our time economically for the American family, and that's health
care. Get the cost of health care down. Get everybody insured, but not in a
government takeover, but by using the dynamics that have always made our other
markets so successful.

And one more thing, and that is, our health care system right now really
penalizes individuals that might want to buy their own insurance, as opposed
to buying it through their company. And that's why I propose that people
should be able to get their insurance individually, and it should be -- and
get the same tax treatment as to whether the company buys it for them, or they
buy it for themself. And all medical expenses would be tax deductible.

This issue, health care, is not a Democratic issue. It's a Republican issue.
It's a Democratic fundraising opportunity. They go out and use it to raise
money. But the right thing for health care is for us to apply market dynamics
to get people insured, and to bring the cost of health care down. The plan
that we put in place is doing just that.


 Senator McCain is sure right on that point. With regards to unions overall, there are some good ones and some not so good. The good ones are those that say, "How can we do a better and better job helping our members have better and better skills, and making sure that the enterprises they work in are more and more" -- 


 Yeah, like the Carpenters Union, for instance, does a great job training their members and making them more effective and more efficient, and they get higher compensation as a result of it. 

There are also bad unions. I'm probably not going to name specific bad unions,
but there are -- (laughter) -- but there are bad unions as well, which -- who
go too far and who forget that in order for them to be successful, the
enterprise that they're involved with has to also be successful.

And -- I mean, I remember my dad had a conversation long ago --


 I'm just going to tell a story -- 


 (Inaudible) -- okay. 


 Well, of course, we remind people that this is a nation that recognizes the equality of all individuals. We welcome people from all nations to come here. We also want to make sure that our nation is kept safe. And we're going to pursue any avenue we have to to assure that people who might be preaching or teaching doctrines of hate or terror are going to be followed into a church or into a school or a mosque or wherever they might be. 

But we welcome people of all backgrounds and faiths, and we don't discriminate
against people based on those things. The countries that we're battling around
the world -- they're the ones that distinguish based on those things, and we
don't. And we of course welcome Arab Americans here in Dearborn and in places
across our country.


 Is London going to replace New York? Of course not. Should we fix Sarbanes-Oxley and take out Section 404 as it applies to smaller companies? Of course we should. 

Is this country the hope of the world? Absolutely.

And would I support the Republican nominee? Of course. I want that nominee,
however, to come out of the same mold as Ronald Reagan. And that's somebody
who is strong for our military, strong for our economy and strong for our
family values.

And by the way, in terms of supporting these guys -- (applause) -- I'd -- you
know, I've come to know these people now over these debates. How many -- is
this our sixth debate, I think, something like that? And this has a lot --
this is a lot like "Law and Order," Senator. (Laughter.) It --


 No, it has a huge cast, the series seems to go on forever -- 


 \-- and Fred Thompson shows up at the end. (Laughter, applause, cross talk.) 


 Our sense of optimism. America has to be optimistic and recognize that there's nothing we can't overcome. We face extraordinary challenges, absolutely. We face jihadism, the emergence of Asia as a competitor, our overspending, our overuse of oil, the failure of our health care system, and yet we can't be burdened down with that. We have to recognize that what we have as Americans is the envy of the world. We have technology, we have innovation, we have great schools, we have great families, we have great homes; what we need to have is leadership that'll tell us the truth, lay out the vision of where we can go and actually lead, and I want to be able to do that for America. 




 Virtually nothing in that ad is true. 


 The single word I'd use would be "desperate" or perhaps "negative." Frankly... 


 I am pro-life. That's the truth. And several years ago, when we faced the issue of cloning of embryos in our state, I wrote an op-ed piece in the Boston Globe and said I'm pro-life. 


 And every action I've taken as governor of Massachusetts has been pro-life. This is a very difficult decision. We're involved in the lives of two people: a mom and an unborn child. And yet I've come down on the side of saying I'm in favor of life. 


 The Massachusetts Citizens for Life just several months ago brought me in and gave me an award for my public leadership on the basis of being pro-life. So the best way you can learn about someone is not by asking their opponent, but ask them, "What do you believe, and what's your view?" And I am pro-life. And virtually every part of that ad is inaccurate. I'm pro-life. My positions are pro-life. The idea that, for instance, I've been in favor of taxpayer funding of abortion; that's wrong. I oppose taxpayer funding of abortion. In our state we passed a medical plan that reduces the number of people who received state funding for abortion. So the ad is just completely wrong. 


 Ah, that's theconsider the source. 


 Look, look. I was pro-choice. I am pro-life. And I'm tired of a... 


 You can go back to YouTube and look at what I said in 1994. I never said I was pro-choice, but my position was effectively pro-choice. I've said that time and time again. I changed my position. When I was governor and when I faced an issue of a life or death, when the first time a bill came to my desk that related to the life of an unborn child, I came down on the side of life. 


 And I put that in The Boston Globe and explained why. And I get tired of people that are holier than thou because they've been pro-life longer than I have. 


 But I'm proud of the fact. 

(APPLAUSE)


 He is pro-choice and pro-gay marriage and anti-gun, and that's a tough combination in a Republican primary. (END VIDEO CLIP) 


 I think Rudy Giuliani is a terrific American and a wonderful mayor. That was very early in the process. I think I've got a better view... 


 Yes, it was in March. He wasn't a candidate yet. I think I have a better perspective on his views nownot entirely, but a pretty good view on his positions. And I'd rather let him speak for him, his own positions, than me speak for them. And I've done by best to let other candidates speak about their own positions. 

So I'm not going to try and elaborate on his positions. I can tell you that I
am pro-life and that I'm opposed to same-sex marriage, and I support the
Second Amendment. Those are my views. Why don't we let each of us describe our
own views, as opposed to taking time to describe those of our colleagues?


 I think we're pretty much in the same place. It is critical for us to win this conflict. It is essential, and that's why we're going to continue to pursue this effort. And we're going to get a report from General Petraeus on the success. And I agree the Brookings Institution report over the weekend was a very encouraging indication that we're making progress. That's great news. At the same time, you look at that Democratic debate, I had to laugh at what I saw Barack Obama do. I mean, in one week he went from saying he's going to sit down, you know, for tea, with our enemies, but then he's going to bomb our allies. I mean, he's gone from Jane Fonda to Dr. Strangelove in one week. 

(LAUGHTER)


 Let me continue. Hold on. I had more time, let me continue. I want to make one other point. 


 And that is, while we are waking up here in the United States and thinking about our barbecue in the afternoon and what's on TV, what baseball game is on, there are lot of families in this country, hundreds of thousands of people, who are waking up wondering whether their loved one is still alive. We have families who made a huge surge of sacrifice to support this surge. And it's time, in my view, for the people of America to show a surge of support, including our leaders in Washington, for these families and for the troops. Let's get behind them and give them everything we have: our prayers, our encouragement, our funds, anything to make sure this surge is successful because it counts for America. 

(APPLAUSE)

(CROSSTALK)


 Look, it's critical to insure more people in this country. It doesn't make sense to have 45 million people without insurance. It's not good for them because they don't get good preventative care and disease management, just as these folks have spoken about. But it's not good for the rest of the citizens either, because if people aren't insured, they go to the emergency room for their care when they get very sick. That's expensive. They don't have any insurance to cover it. 


 So guess who pays? Everybody else. So it's not good for the people that aren't insured. It's not good for everybody else. 


 We have tono, no, let me finish. Green light's on. 


 We have to getno, they just turned it off. Leave it on. 

(LAUGHTER)


 We have to have our citizens insured, and we're not going to do that by tax exemptions, because the people that don't have insurance aren't paying taxes. What you have to do is what we did in Massachusetts. Is it perfect? No. But we say, let's rely on personal responsibility, help people buy their own private insurance, get our citizens insured, not with a government takeover, not with new taxes needed, but instead with a free-market based system that gets all of our citizens in the system. No more free rides. It works. 


 Yes, I think Barack Obama is confused as to who are our friends and who are our enemies. In his first year, he wants to meet with Castro and Chavez and Assad, Ahmadinejad. Those are our enemies. Those are the world's worst tyrants. And then he says he wants to unilaterally go in and potentially bomb a nation which is our friend. We've trying to strengthen Musharraf. We're trying to strengthen the foundations of democracy and freedom in that country so that they will be able to reject the extremists. We're working with themwe're working with them... 


 It's wrong for a person running for the president of the United States to get on TV and say, "We're going to go into your country unilaterally." Of course, America always maintains our option to do whatever we think is in the best interests of America. But we don't go out and say, "Ladies and gentlemen of Germany, if ever there was a problem in your country, we didn't think you were doing the right thing, we reserve the right to come in and get them out." 


 We don't say those things. We keep our options quiet. We do not go out and say to a nation which is working with us, where we have collaborated and they are our friend and we're trying to support Musharraf and strengthen him and his nation, that instead that we intend to go in there and potentially bring out a unilateral attack. Recognize to win the war on jihad, we have to not only have a strong military of our ownand we need a stronger militarywe also need to have strong friends around the world and help moderate Muslims reject the extreme. Because ultimately the only people who can finally defeat these radical Islamic jihadists are the Muslims themselves. 


 Just as these other two gentlemen have said, democracy is not defined by a vote. There have to be the underpinnings of democracy: education, health care, people recognizing they live in a place that has the rule of law. And that's why our effort to spread democracy should continue, not to just spread votes, but instead to encourage other people in the world to have the benefits that we enjoy and to welcome democracy. As Tony Blair said, ours should be a campaign of values, encouraging other nations to see what we have and want those things for themselves. And there's no question in this country, we need to reach out, not just with our military mightalthough that we have, and should keep it strongbut also reach out with our other great capabilities. There... 


 I don't know what Presidentall the things President Bush has done, but I can tell you, I'm not a carbon copy of President Bush. And there are things I would do that would be done differently. I think when there's a country like Lebanon, for instance, that becomes a democracy, that instead of standing by and seeing how they do, we should have been working with the government there to assure that they have the rule of law, that they have agricultural and economic policies that work for them, that they have schools that are not Wahhabi schools, that we try and make sure they have good health care. We bring together not just America, but all the nations of the civilized world. We help draw these folks toward modernity, as opposed to having them turn toward the violence and the extreme, which Hezbollah and Hamas brought forward. And that kind of a campaign of values, combined with our strong arms, speaking softly but carrying a strong stick, as Teddy Roosevelt said, that will help move the world to a safer place. 


 We'd love it if we could all just come home and not worry about the rest of the world, as Ron Paul says. But the problem is, they attacked us on 9/11. We were here; they attacked us. We want to help move the world of Islam toward modernity so they can reject the extreme... 


 There's no question but that the biggest source of revenue for this countryif you really want to make some money in this country, really get some money so we can repair our infrastructure and build for the future, the biggest source of that is a growing American economy. If the economy is growing slowly, when tax revenues hardly move at all, and, boy, you better raise taxes to get more money for all the things you want to do. But if the economy is growing quickly, then we generate all sorts of new revenue. And the best way to keep the economy rolling is to keep our taxes down. That is why I proposed that middle-income Americans ought to pay no taxes on their savings. Invest in the future of the economy. Growth helps us provide the revenue that we need. Our bridgeslet me tell you what we did in our state. We found that we had 500 bridges, roughly, that were deemed structurally deficient. And so we changed how we focused our money. Instead of spending it to build new projectsthe bridge to nowhere, new trophies for congressmenwe instead said, "Fix it first." We have to reorient how we spend our money. 


 You let the president decide what the responsibilities of the vice president would be in his administration... 


 Depends on the person, depends on the needs, depends on their capabilities. But I like a person that gives wide viewpoints on a wide array of issues. But let me tell you, it's been very popular lately for people across the country to be critical of the president and the vice president. And I know they make mistakes. But they have kept us safe these last six years. Let's not forget that. 

(APPLAUSE)


 It's good, but it's not that good. 


 There are a lot of features that are very attractive about a fair tax. Getting rid of the IRS is something we'd all love. But the truth is, we're going to have to pay taxes. We are the largest economy in the world. We've addedduring the time Europe added 3 million jobs, we've added about 50 million jobs in this country. And so completely throwing out our tax system and coming up with an entirely new one is something we have to do very, very carefully. The president's commission on taxationtax reformlooked at this and said: Not a good idea. Some of the reasons... 


 Let mehold on, let me complete. Some of the reasons are the fair tax, for instance, charges a 23 percent tax, plus state sales tax, on a new home, when you purchase a new home. But if you buy an old home, there's no tax. Think what that might do to the construction industry. We need to thoroughly take it apart before we make a change of that nature. That's why my view is, get rid of the tax on savings and let middle-income people save their money tax-free. 


 Of course. Of course. 


 Probably from a political standpoint and a personal standpoint, the greatest mistake was when I first ran for office, being deeply opposed to abortion but saying, "I support the current law," which was pro-choice and effectively a pro-choice position. That was just wrong. And when I became a governor and faced a life-and-death decision as a governor, I came down on the side of life. That was a mistake before that. 


 I've thought a lot about this question. And I take my inspiration from my dad, from Ronald Reagan, Teddy Roosevelt, the Declaration of Independence. My view is that America is going to be strengthened by virtue of the presidency, if I'm able to have that opportunity. I would strengthen America's military, make sure that we could be safe here at home. We know that we can be safe around the world. I want to have more troops in our military. I want to have them have the equipment they need on the battlefield and the care they deserve when they come home. I want to strengthen our economy, keep our taxes down, become free of oil from foreign places, strengthen our economy so we have great jobs and a great future for our people. And finally, I want to strengthen the American family. In my view, families, a strong economy and a strong militarythat combination of features is what makes this party so strong and accounts for our great success in the elections over the prior several decades and also is so critical to our future as a nationa strong economy, a strong military, and strong families. And I'll fight for those things. 

(APPLAUSE)


 You know, this is a critical time for our nation and fore our party. We have to decide which direction we're going to head. And, in my view, we're going to have to bring together the same coalition that Ronald Reagan put together; conservatives fiscally, conservatives from a military standpoint and conservatives socially. 


 And I believe that a candidate -- and all of us here are Republicans, all of us are trying to put together that same coalition, but it's essential that the strength of the house Ronald Reagan built is going to lead us to become the successful nation that we've always been, and our party to be successful. 

Because we're not going to -- we're not going to keep Hillary Clinton out of
the White House by acting like Hillary Clinton.

Now, I'm proud of my record. Not just of the words, but of the record of the
governor of Massachusetts. Like Mayor Giuliani I had a tough state to be
running in. I was a conservative Republican in a very Democrat state. My
legislature, 85 percent Democrat. We face a $3 billion budget gap. We solved
it without raising taxes, without adding debt.

We solved the problem in health care in our state not by having government
take it over, the way Hillary Clinton would -- with private free-enterprise
approaches.

My approach, I believe, is best for our nation.

(APPLAUSE)


 Well, Senator McCain is an American hero, and I respect his service. I respect his service in government as well. 

(APPLAUSE)

And we have some differences on some issues. But when I ran against Ted
Kennedy in 1994, I knew that was going to be a big uphill climb. But let me
tell you, I was fighting for issues like making sure that we would have the
death penalty in our state, fighting to keep our taxes down.


 I fought, as well, to secure our borders. I fought to keep the welfare bills from the 1960s that have created such a havoc in our nation, to try and get those changed. 

So I was fighting against the liberal lion in perhaps the toughest state in
America. And I'm pretty proud of what I was able to accomplish in that race,
but nothing compares to the pride I have with the work that I was able to do
as a governor.

I served for four years. My legislature was 85 percent Democrat. I fought to
get English in our schools, to make sure we had English immersion. I fought to
make sure we kept our taxes down. I fought for pro-growth strategies. I cut
taxes.

All of us on the stage are Republican. But the question is, who will be able
to build the house that Ronald Reagan built -- who will be able to strengthen
that house, because that's the house that's going to build the house that
Clinton, Hillary, wants to build.


 Don't demote me. I want to make one thing very, very clear, and that is if there were ever a question of a security threat to this country, I would act immediately to protect the interests of America and our citizens. No question about that. 

(APPLAUSE)

Let me also note, the question is -- you properly asked it, Chris -- was: What
involvement would Congress have to have? Every president from the beginning of
time who has had that issue has of course met with White House counsel and the
attorney general and they have written opinions about the involvement of
Congress. I can imagine every person on this stage would likewise apprise
themselves of Congress' perspective -- excuse me, of Congress' role with those
individuals.

But the decision to take our men and women to war is the most grave decision
and I would do that on a very deliberate and careful basis, not a half-cocked
basis. This president went to Congress.


 Hillary Clinton is trying to rewrite history, that somehow he did this all by himself, going to Iraq. He went to Congress and got their support. Let's not forget that. 

(APPLAUSE)


 Well, they have a different point of view. But I've been in a state that has gay marriage, and I recognize that the consequences of gay marriage fall far beyond just the relationship between a man and a woman. 

They also relate to our kids and the right of religion to be practiced freely
in a society.

So, for instance, I want to make sure that our kids have a mom and a dad. I
want to make sure the Catholic Church in our state, that's been banned from
doing adoptions because they want the kids to go into home where there's a mom
and a dad, that they can do adoptions again.

The status of marriage, if it's allowed among the same sex individuals in one
state is going to spread to the entire nation. And that's why it's important
to have a national standard for marriage.

And I'm committed to making sure that we reinforce the institution of marriage
in this country by insisting that all states have a right to have marriage as
defined as between a man and a woman; and we don't have unelected judges,
liberals, standing up and saying we're going to impose same-sex marriage where
it was clearly not in their state constitution.


 My state's constitution was written by John Adams. It isn't there. I've looked. And in Iowa as well you've got a court saying they have to have same-sex marriage. 

The people need to speak on this issue and make sure that marriage is
preserved as between a man and a woman.

(APPLAUSE)


 First of all, I'm not going to give the Democratic legislature credit for the plan that I helped build. So, I want to let you know I'm very proud of what we did in Massachusetts, and I think it's a model that other states can adopt in some respects. 

But let me tell you something about our plan. It's different than Hillary
Clinton's in a lot of important ways. But one thing that I'm happy about is
that Republicans are talking about health care. This isn't a Democrat issue.
It's a Republican issue.


 For Democrats, they want to have government take it over. And I don't want to have the guys who did the cleanup at Katrina taking responsibility for health care in this country. 

The right answer...

(APPLAUSE)

The right answer is to get people insured, all of our citizens insured so they
don't have to worry about losing their insurance if they change jobs or have a
preexisting condition.

But Hillary says the federal government's going to tell you what kind of
insurance, and it's all government insurance. And I say no, let the states
create their own plans, and instead of government insurance, private, market-
based insurance.

Hillary's plan costs an extra $110 billion. My plan doesn't cost any
additional money. We use the money we're already speaking, we just use it a
good deal more wisely.

And the real question here is, are we going to talk about health care and get
everybody insured with private insurance? Absolutely. Because the alternative
is unthinkable. As P.J. O'Rourke said, if you think health care's expensive
now, just wait until it's free. We're not going Hillary's way.

(APPLAUSE)


 Oh, I've got to respond to that. 


 We took as many mandates out as we could in our policies. And the legislature kept some there. I tried to take them all out; they put some back in. It was a compromise. They put some mandates there. 

But, let me tell you how many we got out. The price of the premium for an
individual, 42 years old, in Boston, used to $350 a month. Now, it's $180. We
basically cut it in half by deregulating.


 Congressman, you're absolutely right that taking regulation out of insurance brings the price down, and that's why my plan would go state by state, deregulate them so we can get the cost of premiums down. But it is unacceptable to keep talking about this and still have 47 million people without health insurance. We got the job done. This is the first state in America that is on track to have everybody insured. Half of my uninsured are now insured, and I am proud of what we've done. 

(APPLAUSE)


 The audience -- the audience is telling you the answer. 

You know, look at the challenges that America faces right now.


 And not only do we face global jihad, with all of the implications of a group of people who want to bring down our nation and free nations around the world, but you also face an emerging economic superpower in China. It's the new Asian tiger. 

And China and India are coming in a remarkable way to compete for our jobs.

The idea that someone wants to be president who's never worked in the private
sector is really a big question mark. I've spent 25 years in the business
world, running a small business that became a large one. I've worked in 20
countries around the world, working on investments and helping manage a
business and so forth.

That skill, that experience is essential. Hillary Clinton wants to run the
largest enterprise in the world, the government of the United States. It
employs millions of people, trillions of dollars in revenue.


 She hasn't run a corner store. She hasn't run a state. She hasn't run a city. She has never run anything. And the idea that she could learn to be president, you know, as an internship just doesn't make any sense. 

I have spent my life running things. I've learned how to run a business. I've
learned how to run a state. I ran the Olympics. In each case, I brought
change.

And if there's ever been a time we needed change in Washington to bring
strength to America, it's now.


 Well, I'd vote no. I'd vote no. I don't want her as commander in chief. I don't believe she has the experience in leadership and running something of the scale of our military to be the commander in chief of this nation. 

If you asked me, if the ballot is put in front of anybody in this room, I
think you heard what they said. The answer is, absolute -- anyone here want to
vote for Hillary?


 I agree with them. 


 I'm prepared to be entirely bold, but I'm not prepared to cut benefits for low-income Americans. 

We're going to make sure that we protect these programs for our seniors.
That's number one.

Number two...


 Well, our current seniors. Currently, we're taking more money into Social Security that we actually send out. So our current seniors, their benefits are not going to change. 

For people 20 and 30 and 40 years old, we have four major options, for
instance, for Social Security. One is the one Democrats want: raise taxes.
It's the wrong way to go.

Number two, the president said let's have private accounts and take that
surplus money that's being gathered now in Social Security and put that into
private accounts. That works.

Other people said, well, extend the retirement age.


 That mathematically works. It's not as attractive. And the last is to index the Social Security benefits, the first benefit, to something other than wages, which is what it has always been. 

But, in my view, that's the wrong way to go. That's the wrong way to go other
than for higher-income Americans. Higher-income Americans -- that is the Posen
plan -- yes, let's consider doing that. That is indexing based on prices
rather than wages.

But the others, Medicaid and Medicare, we can solve those. I know that. We did
it in our state. We are on track to have everybody in our state insured. These
problems are not impossible to solve.

Good, effective leadership that brings people from both sides of the aisle
together can get this job done. I have done it in business. I did it at the
Olympics. I did it as a governor. I will do it as president.


 Yes. 


 Well, you know, I will learn from his experience and from my own, because it took us about a couple of years to get find a way to get everybody in our state insured. 


 We wanted them insured, but we didn't want government to have to pick up a new bill. And so we spent a lot of time working on it. 

We didn't just have a bunch of bureaucrats. We had a professor from MIT, an
investment banker, a head of a consulting firm. We all worked on it, came up
with an idea, and then we met with Democrats and said: Can we find common
ground here?

And, you know, Democrats also love America. As Ronald Reagan used to say, it's
not that liberals are ignorant. It's just that what they know is wrong.

(LAUGHTER)

So, you've got to -- you can educate each other. We've got some things to
learn from time to time, too. And you find common ground. we will do that, and
we will solve these entitlement problems.


 Yes, we spoke -- about Russia, we've spoken about what's happening in Turkey and, obviously, Iraq. As you look around the world, you recognize that it's still a dangerous place. 

During the Clinton years, the president said we're going to take a peace
dividend. We got the dividend. We didn't get the peace.

He reduced the scale of our military dramatically, took 500,000 troops out,
cut back our Navy by 80 ships, knocked our Air Force down 25 percent. Our
aircraft fleet today are 28 years old.

The U.N. is failing in its mission to protect the world and to prevent
genocide.

(APPLAUSE)

The strategy for America's safety is not to live in what Charles Krauthammer
called a holiday from history, but to realize America must be strong.


 We need a strong military to protect us with more troops, more equipment and better care when our troops come home. 

(APPLAUSE)

We also need a strong economy so we can have a strong military, and we need
strong families and values to teach our kids to build a strong economy and a
strong military.

(APPLAUSE)


 Absolutely. It called itself a sanctuary city. And as a matter of fact, when the welfare reform act that President Clinton brought forward said that they were going to end the sanctuary policy of New York City, the mayor actually brought a suit to maintain its sanctuary city status.

And the idea that they reported any illegal alien that committed a crime --
how about the fact that the people who are here illegally have violated the
law? They didn't report everybody they found that was here illegally.

And this happens to be a difference between Mayor Giuliani and myself and
probably others on this stage as well, which is we're going to have to
recognize in this country that we welcome people here legally.

But the mayor said -- and I quote almost verbatim -- which is if you happen to
be in this country in an undocumented status -- and that means you're here
illegally -- then we welcome you here. We want you here. We'll protect you
here.

That's the wrong attitude. Instead, we should say if you're here illegally,
you should not be here. We're not going to give you benefits, other than those
required by the law, like health care and education, and that's the course
we're going to have to pursue.


 Mayor, you know better than that.

(Laughter)


 OK, then listen. All right? Then listen. First of all ...


 No, I did not, so let's just talk about that. Are you suggesting, Mr. Mayor -- because I think it is really kind of offensive actually to suggest, to say look, you know what, if you are a homeowner and you hire a company to come provide a service at your home -- paint the home, put on the roof. If you hear someone that is working out there, not that you have employed, but that the company has.

If you hear someone with a funny accent, you, as a homeowner, are supposed to
go out there and say, "I want to see your papers."

Is that what you're suggesting?


 I'm sorry, immigration is not holier than thou, Mayor. It's the law.


 I'm not perfect.


 I ask the mayor again. Are you suggesting, Mayor, that if you have a company that you hired who provide a service, that you now are responsible for going out and checking the employees of that company, particularly those that might look different or don't have an accent like yours, and ask for their papers -- I don't think that's American, number one.

Number two ...


 Let me tell you what I did as governor. I said no to driver's licenses for illegals.

I said, number two, we're going to make sure that those that come here don't
get a tuition break in our schools, which I disagree with other folks on that
one.

(Applause)

Number three, I applied to have our state police enforce the immigration laws
in May, seven months before I was out of office.

It took the federal government a long time to get the approvals and we
enforced the law. And Massachusetts is not a sanctuary state, and the policies
of the mayor of pursuing a sanctuary nation or pursuing a sanctuary city...


 ... are, frankly, wrong.


 Well, you know, I like Mike. And I heard what he just said. But he basically said that he fought for giving scholarships to illegal aliens. And he had -- he had a great reason for doing so.

It reminds me of what it's like talking to liberals in Massachusetts, all
right? They have great reasons for taking taxpayer money and using it for
things they think are the right thing to do.

Mike, that's not your money. That's the taxpayers' money.

(Applause)

And the right thing here is to say to people that are here legally as citizens
or legal aliens, we're going to help you. But if you're here illegally, then
you ought to be able to return home or get in line with everybody else. But
illegals are not going to get taxpayer-funded breaks that are better than our
own citizens, those that come from other states or those that come from your
state.


 Well ...


 I get a chance to just respond to that. We are not punishing children for what their parents did. I respect the fact that you worked your way through college. That's the way you are. That's wonderful. A lot of people in this country do tremendous things to get their education. But the question is, are we going to give taxpayer-funded benefits to kids that are here illegally and put them ahead of kids that are here legally?

There is only so much money to go around, and ...


 Let me finish, too.


 Well, the senator is absolutely right. Every bill that comes forward that's got pork in it and earmarks that are unnecessary, we've got to veto them and send them back. And that's a -- that's a lesson that's going to have to be done.

But it's gotta be broader than that. We're going to have to see fundamental
change in the way Washington works. We're just -- we're just not going to get
out-of-the-box thinking with inside-the-Beltway politics.

And we're going to have to fundamentally go at something like our entitlements
and say we've got to reform those. I took on a major issue, which was health
care, found a way to get people health insurance without having to expand
government, without having to raise taxes.

We are going to have to after entitlements. We are going to have to set a cap,
as I have proposed, on all nonmilitary discretionary spending, and inflation
less 1 percent. Anything above that, we veto it.


 I've signed Grover's pledge as well. I believe I was the first person on this stage to do so.


 Not to mention Kansas, Missouri, North Dakota, South Dakota and so forth. We don't want to find ourselves, with regards to our food supply, in the same kind of position we're in with regards to our energy supply. And so it's important for us to make sure that our farmers are able to stay on the farm and raise the crops that we need to have a secure source of food. And so I believe in supports that will allow us to do that.

And the same time, I recognize that we're also investing in new technologies
to get ourselves energy independent. And I happen to believe that some of the
best sources for having renewable energy come from the farm. And so we're
investing with subsidies in those areas to create new technology that
otherwise wouldn't be ready for the market yet. So I support these programs.

And finally, I'd say this. We have, in our nation, about one out of three
acres that are planted are for sale overseas.

We send products around the world. We're competing with European and Brazilian
and other farmers, and we're competing in a marketplace where they are heavily
subsidized, at great disadvantage for our farmers. And so, if we're going to
change our support structure, we want to make sure that they change their
support structure.

And we do this together, as opposed to unilaterally saying: We're going to put
our farmers in a tough position and have the farmers in the rest of the world
continue to be subsidized.

So, open markets, let our goods go around the world and secure our source of
food.


 I believe that abortion should be safe and legal in this country. I believe that since Roe v. Wade has been the law for 20 years, that we should sustain and support it.


 I'm not sure who that young guy was at the beginning of that film, but I can tell you this, which is, I don't know how many times I can tell it. I was wrong. All right. I was effectively pro- choice when I ran for office.

(Applause)

If people in this country are looking for someone who's never made a mistake
on a policy issue and is not willing to admit they're ever wrong, why then
they're going to have to find somebody else, because on abortion I was wrong.

(Applause)

And I changed my mind as the governor. This didn't just happen the last couple
of weeks or the last year. This happened when I was governor the first time a
bill came to my desk that related to life. I could not sign a bill that would
take away human life. I came down on the side of life every single instance as
governor of Massachusetts. I was awarded by the Massachusetts Citizens for
Life with their leadership award for my record.

I'm proud to be pro-life, and I'm not going to be apologizing for people for
becoming pro-life.

(Applause)


 I have two guns in my home. They are owned by my son Josh.


 He buys expensive things for me.


 Well, first of all, Printes is pretty fortunate because he's got a dad standing next to him that apparently loves him by all appearances there, and that's probably the best thing you can do for a kid is to have a mom and a dad.

(Applause)

And it's time in this country that we go back to the kind of values that allow
kid to have moms and dads. In the African-American community today, 68 percent
of kids born are born out of wedlock. And so we're going to try and once again
reinculcate in this country the try of values that have made us so strong:
family values.

Secondly ...


 Well, one, about the war in the inner city -- number one is to get more moms and dads. That's number one. And thank heavens Bill Cosby said it like it was. That's where the root of crime starts.

Number two, we've got to have better education in our schools.

I think that the civil rights issue of our time is the failure of inner-city
schools to prepare kids in the inner city for the jobs of tomorrow. And number
three, of course, you have to do a better job with our policing. And I was
very proud that I added one state police class after another.

We had the largest state police in the history of our state during my term. We
put in place tough laws related to drunk driving. Sex offenders, they have
their pictures now posted on the Internet. We took actions to be tough on
crime. And I was pleased that violent crime in my state during my term reduced
by 7 percent.


 I think we all recognize that the mayor did a wonderful job at reducing crime in the City of New York.

I'm not a mayor, I'm not running for a mayor's job; I didn't have a police
commissioner. But I did take the actions that I could, as a state governor, to
improve our state police, to strengthen our state police, to be able to put in
place the DNA laboratory -- we more than tripled the size of our DNA
laboratory -- and did the things we could to improve crime -- our crime
enforcement.

And I'm proud of the fact that we were able to reduce crime during my tenure.


 I agree with Senator Thompson, which is we should overturn Roe v. Wade and return these issues to the states.

I would welcome a circumstance where there was such a consensus in this
country that we said, we don't want to have abortion in this country at all,
period. That would be wonderful. I'd be delighted.


 Let me say it. I'd be delighted to sign that bill. But that's not where we are. That's not where America is today. Where America is is ready to overturn Roe v. Wade and return to the states that authority. But if the Congress got there, we had that kind of consensus in that country, terrific.


 I believe the Bible is the word of God, absolutely. And I try...

(Applause)

... I try to live by it as well as I can, but I miss in a lot of ways. But
it's a guide for my life and for hundreds of millions, billions of people
around the world. I believe in the Bible.


 You know -- yes, I believe it's the word of God, the Bible is the word of God.

The Bible is the word of God. I mean, I might interpret the word differently
than you interpret the word, but I read the Bible and I believe the Bible is
the word of God. I don't disagree with the Bible. I try to live by it.


 I'm Mitt Romney, and I approve this message.

(End videotape)

(Commercial break)

(Begin videotape)


 Well, he certainly is an expert and I certainly would want to get his counsel on a matter of this nature, but I do not believe that as a presidential candidate, it is wise for us to describe precisely what techniques we will use in interrogating people.

I oppose torture. I would not be in favor of torture in any way, shape or
form.


 And as I just said, as a presidential candidate, I don't think it's wise for us to describe specifically which measures we would and would not use.

And that is something which I would want to receive the counsel not only of
Senator McCain, but of a lot of other people.

And there are people who, for many, many years get the information we need to
make sure that we protect our country.

And, by the way, I want to make sure these folks are kept at Guantanamo. I
don't want the people that are carrying out attacks on this country to be
brought into our jail system and be given legal representation in this
country. I want to make sure that what happened ...

(Applause)

... to Khalid Sheikh Mohammed happens to other people who are terrorists. He
was captured. He was the so-called mastermind of the 9/11 tragedy. And he
turned to his captors and he said, "I'll see you in New York with my lawyers."
I presume ACLU lawyers.

(Laughter)

Well, that's not what happened. He went to Guantanamo and he met G.I.s and CIA
interrogators. And that's just exactly how it ought to be.

(Applause)


 I know what waterboarding is, Senator.


 Senator McCain, I appreciate your strong response, and you have the credentials upon which to make that response. I did not say and I do not say that I'm in favor of torture.

I am not. I'm not going to specify the specific means of what is and what is
not torture so that the people that we capture will know what things we're
able to do and what things we're not able to do. And I get that advice from
Cofer Black, who is a person who was responsible for counterterrorism in the
CIA for some 35 years.

I get that advice by talking to former generals in our military...


 ... and I don't believe it's appropriate for me, as a presidential candidate, to lay out all the issues one by one...


 ... get questioned one by one: Is this torture, is that torture?


 And so, that's something which I'm going to take your and other people's counsel on.


 This isn't that time. This is not that time. We're in the middle of a war. The people who have...


 I'm going to listen to the people who run the military to see what the circumstances are like. And my view is that, at this stage, this is not the time for us to make that kind of...


 Yes, I didn't think it would work. I didn't think "don't ask/don't tell" would work. That was my -- I didn't think that would work. I thought that was a policy, when I heard about it, I laughed. I said that doesn't make any sense to me.

And you know what? It's been there now for, what, 15 years? It seems to have
worked.


 I look forward to hearing from the military exactly what they believe is the right way to have the right kind of cohesion and support in our troops and I listen to what they have to say.

(Audience booing)


 Thank you.

That's one of the problems we face, and a big one, which is the over-spending
in Washington and the debt and the obligations we have.

We also face tough new competition coming from Asia. We face global jihad,
which we just talked about very briefly. We face a whole series of
extraordinary problems -- over-use of oil, entitlement is out of control.

It's time for us to recognize we're going to have to take a new course in this
country -- not follow Hillary Clinton off to the left; instead, to follow the
pathway Ronald Reagan blazed, which is to say we're going to have a stronger
America with a stronger economy and have somebody who understands how jobs
come and go, who understands what propels our economy, will strengthen our
economy, strengthen our military and strengthen our families.


 Right now, with the kinds of issues we got in this country, I'm not going to get involved with a flag like that. That's not a flag that I recognize so that I would hold up in my room.

The people of our country have decided not to fly that flag. I think that's
the right thing.

(Applause)

My own view is that this country can go beyond that kind of stuff, and that
instead we can do as a party what we need to do, which is to reach out to all
Americans.

Every time I listen to someone like John Edwards get on TV and say there are
two Americans, I just want to -- I just want to throw something at the TV,
because there are not two Americas. There's one America.

We are a nation united. We face extraordinary challenges right now. And
Democrats dividing us and tearing down this country are doing exactly the
wrong thing.

We're succeeding in Iraq. We've got tough challenges. We can overcome them.
But we do not need to have that kind of divisive talk. And that flag, frankly,
is divisive, and it shouldn't be shown.


 Eighty-seven long years. We waited 87 long years. And true suffering Red Sox fans that my family and I are, we could not have been more happy than to see the Red Sox win the World Series, except by being able to beat the Yankees when they were ahead three games to none.

And so, I have to tell you that like most Americans, we love our sports teams
and we hate the Yankees.


 This is, indeed, a time of extraordinary challenges in this country, and the overspending in Washington and the over promises that we've made are certainly among those challenges, but this is not a time for us to wring our hands and think that the future is bleak. In fact, the future is bright. We need leadership in Washington that will rein in excessive spending, and we also need leadership that will help America grow. The best answer for our economic woes is to make sure we have good jobs for our citizens, good health care for everyone, and that we have policies that promote the growth of the nation. We can have a level playing field around the world, get ourselves off foreign oil, reduce the excessive spending in Washington, and have a bright future for our kids. This, again, is based upon the strength of the American people. If you want to see a strong America, you don't look to Washington, you look to strength in the American people.


 Well, we don't have to run a deficit to pay for the things that are most important because we can eliminate the things that aren't critical. In the private sector, where I spent the first 25 years of my life and most of my career, you learn how to focus on the things that are most important and you get rid of the things that aren't. We have in the federal government 342 different economic development programs often administered by different departments. We don't need 342. We probably don't need a hundred of those. We probably need a lot fewer than that. We have 40 different programs for work force training. There are probably five or six that are really working and a lot that are probably not working terribly well. We can get rid of some of those. We have 13 different programs to prevent teenage pregnancy. They're obviously not working real well, and we could probably cut it down to one or two that are making a difference. What anyone in the private sector's learned how to do is to focus their resources on those things that have the biggest impact, that are most important. Surely protecting our country and the defense of our military is critical. Getting our free market, finally able to allow all of our citizens to have health insurance, that's something we did in Massachusetts. Improving our schools with school choice, better pay for better teachers, these are a lot of things that we can do but they don't require us to eliminate the things that are most critical in our society. Instead they require us to get rid of those things that are unnecessary, and the sacrifice we need for the American people, it's this: it's saying let the programs that don't work go.


 Don't lobby for them forever.


 I don't stay awake at night worrying about the taxes that rich people are paying, to tell you the truth. I'm concerned about the taxes that middle-class people are paying. They're under a lot of pressure. Gasoline is expensive. Home Heating oil, particularly in the northeast, is very difficult for folks. Health care costs are going through the roof. Education costs in higher education are overwhelming. And as a result, we need to reduce the burden on middle-income families in this country.


 Well, you know, I'm just trying to get into your situation.


 Yeah, I've spent the last, as I told you, 25 years in the private sector. I understand why jobs come and why jobs go. I've done business in over 20 countries around the world. And I understand how we can build strength in our economy, and that's by investing in education, investing in technology and innovation, getting ourselves off of foreign oil, and making sure the playing field that we play on around the world is level. It's not right now. We're going to have to renegotiate deals with people like those in China that manipulate their currency to put their products at an advantage over ours. We want to make sure that we do not have a circumstance where people close down their markets to our goods, because we can compete anywhere in the world. One out of three agricultural acres is planted to go offshore, so don't put up barriers that keep us from being able to trade. America can compete anywhere in the world, and to remain a superpower, we must compete around the world.


 How about 30 seconds?


 Well, it's going to help our economy because we're going to invest in new technologies to get ourselves off of foreign oil. And as we get ourselves off of foreign oil, we also dramatically reduce our co2 emissions. That's good for the environment. It's also good for our economy. Because buying $300, $400 billion worth a year in oil from people who use it against us, that's bad for our economy. It's also bad for the environment. We can do these things in a way that helps both the environment and the economy and national security. That's the beauty of what we're talking about here, which is, yeah, is global an issue for the world? Absolutely. Is it something we can deal with by becoming energy independent and energy secure? We sure can. But at the same time, we call it global warming, not America warming. So, let's not put a burden on us alone and have the rest of the world skate by without having to participate in this effort. It's a global effort but our independence is something we can do unilaterally.


 Carolyn, these are 60-second answers, right?


 Okay, let's make sure because time is going pretty quick here. Education is an important topic, and the President was right to fight for No Child Left Behind, because we allow states now to test our kids and see how they're doing, particularly in math and English. We've made the same effort in our state, actually before No Child Left Behind was passed. We test our kids. We have high standards. We teach them in English, English immersion. We say to be successful in America, you've got to speak the language of America. We also put in place incentives for kids to do well. For those that take the graduation exam, which you have to take to get out of high school, we say you're going to get, if you score in the top 25% of the test, a four-year tuition-free scholarship to a Massachusetts institution of higher learning.


 And the federal government insists on those tests and standards. And it's key. Let me continue. I think we also have to have higher pay for better teachers. And people who are not good teachers ought to find a better career. And finally, we need more parental involvement. And we've tested our kids in Massachusetts along with all the other kinds in the nation. Fifty states get tested every year in English and math. In fourth and eighth grade, my eighth graders came out number one in English, came out number one in math. My fourth graders, number one in English, number one in math. The first time in history one state number one in all four measures. School choice, better pay for better teachers, high standards, scholarships for the best kids, English immersion, these principles work.


 Just one small adjustment to what Governor Huckabee had to say, and I don't believe you had the finest record of any governor in education  

  
(Laughter)


 \-- because there's another one on the stand whose kids outperformed me. The kids in our state, as I indicated, scored number one in all four measures on the national exams, and they did that because of Republican principles, free market principles and it was a partnership. You see, education is not just the teachers union. I agree with Senator Thompson on that. They've been the biggest obstacle to change in education and choice. It's not just one side of this, it's teachers, it's parents, it's the state, it's federal government, it's all levels coming together and working together for the benefit of our kids. And we face right now an education challenge that's really unusual. We're behind. America's behind in education. Our kids score in the bottom 10-25% in exams around the world among major industrial nations, and we've got to have the kind of change that requires all of us working together, not just poking and saying it's someone else's job.


 I want to do more than talk in my first year. There are a lot of things that I want to get done. First of all, I want to establish a strategy to help us overwhelm global Jihad and keep the world safe. I want to end illegal immigration. We can get that done. I want to end the expansion growth of entitlements, rein em in. I want to end the extraordinary growth in federal spending, and I want to keep our tax burden down and reduce our tax burden on middle-income families. I want to get us on a track to become energy independent. I want to get our schools on a track so they can become competitive globally. And I want to get health insurance for every America. It's going to take four years for that to happen, but I'll get us on track. We'll have a stronger military, a stronger economy, and stronger values with stronger families after my first year in office.


 I want to begin by saying thank you to the people of Iowa over the last year. My wife and I visited many, many home, many places, over 70 town meetings, 67 counties. Josh, my son, has visited all 99 counties. People here have warm hearts. They've welcomed us and it's something that's made me feel very good about America. Anybody who's worried about the future of this great land needs to come to Iowa and meet the people with the kind of heartland values that you have here. People here also recognize we face real challenges, and they want somebody who will strengthen America. I know how to keep America strong. I know a lot about the economy. I'll make sure we keep good jobs. I've learned a lot about education and health care. I'll improve our schools, get our health care system working for all Americans, and I'll make sure that we have the kind of values that we can be proud of that are so essential to the great strength of this nation. And finally I want to say to the people of Iowa, I need your help, I'd like your vote, and I want you to get out and participate in that caucus.


 I'm not sure.

(Laughter)


 This audience and the whole nation has heard time and time again the fact that I was effectively pro choice when I ran for office. When I became Governor of Massachusetts, the first time a bill came to my desk, I simply could not side with taking a life. And I came on the side of life. Every bill that came to my desk, every issue that related to protecting the sanctity of life, I can down on the side of life. I'm pro-life, I'm not going to apologize for becoming pro-life. Ronald Reagan followed the same course, as did Henry Hyde and George Herbert Walker Bush, and I'm proud to be pro-life.


 I think it's incredibly important he be a conservative. I'm going to build on the same foundation Ronald Reagan built. We're not going to get the White House nor strengthen America unless we can pull together the coalition of conservatives and conservative thought that has made us successful as a party. That's social conservatives. It's also economic conservatives, and foreign policy and defense conservatives. Those three together form the three legs of the Republican stool that allowed Ronald Reagan to get elected and allowed our party to have strength over the last several decades. And I'm going to continue to draw, as many on this stage try and do, upon those strengths and to build America by virtue of those conservative principles whether in health care, education, defense, spending, entitlement reform, you name it. Conservative principles work. They've been tested time and again, and they'll keep working.


 I think we're better off by strictly following the Constitution as it existed and as it was brought forward, and if we think there's a need for a new right, then going to the people or their elected representatives to establish that right, rather than having judges from their own heart or their own mind establishing new rights and new laws. It's not for judges to legislate or to create a new Constitution. That's something that only the people and their elected representatives should be able to do.


 Let's have a resolution amongst all of us that we'll have a spirited campaign as we have, but we'll come together, come together real soon when this is resolved, and we will fight to make sure that one of the people on this stage is the next President of the United States, not one of the people on that Democratic stage you've had more than once.


 Happy to. First of all, we raised fees by $240 million in our state because we had a whole series of fees that hadn't been raised, in some cases, in decades, so we brought them up to the cost of providing services.

These were not broad-based fees that were required for all people to pay,
rather for specialized services.

But let's talk about taxes. Lowering taxes grows the economy. Lowering taxes
helps build jobs and helps working families, and so I strongly have been of
the view that one of the great lessons for Ronald Reagan was that lowering
taxes helped built our economy.

Senator McCain was one of two Republicans who voted against the Bush tax cuts.
I believe the Bush tax cuts helped our economy grow and are one of the reasons
that we're not in a recession today.

Senator McCain continues to believe -- based upon his comments on "Meet the
Press" today -- that that was the right vote to take, and I respect that
that's his view. I just happen to disagree with it. As governor, I fought
tirelessly to reduce taxes. We cut taxes some 19 times in our state, not as
many times as I wanted to, but I was able to cut taxes, with the help of the
legislature, time after time, and we held down spending.

At the same time, Governor Huckabee has a fine record. He says he lowered
taxes 94 times. I believe him. Net-net, however, the tax burden in Arkansas
was raised by $500 million, I believe the figure is from his state. So we have
different records when it comes to taxes.

I believe it's critical for our economy going forward that we lower taxes
again and we do so for the middle class. And so I've proposed a special
savings plan for people in middle incomes.

And that savings plan is this: Any interest income, or dividend income, or
capital gains earned by people earning less than $200,000 a year should be
taxed at the new rate of zero. Let people save their money for whatever
purpose they'd like to save.

I believe that will help stimulate our economy, create the economic base for
growth of our new jobs, and make it easier for middle-income folks to make
ends meet.

Thank you.


 No. No, it does not, because, frankly, one of the things that we did to get ourselves out of the recession, as we came out of 9/11, we were going into recession, we had the Internet bubble boost, this president took a very bold action.

He said, "I'm going to cut taxes" and he did so and that helped our economy
turn around. Now, we've also heard, for years, a lot of people in Washington
talk about how they're going to cut spending and cut out earmarks and, year
after year, spending grows and earmarks grow, even under Republican
leadership, and that's why change is going to have to begin with us.

And this isn't something I've just talked about. It's something I've done. As
governor, I cut spending. In my first year, our budget actually went down. I
cut state employment when I was governor.

We cut back spending. I vetoed literally hundreds of items and, at the same
time, I cut taxes 19 times and kept fighting to cut taxes.

So you have a choice. You can select somebody who wants to fight for those
things or you can select somebody who's actually done those things, and I've
got a record of cutting spending and cutting taxes.


 Well, facts are different things.

I think, Mike, you agreed that net-net, you raised taxes by half a billion
dollars. Is that right?


 Mike, I asked you a question


 You know, the let's -- facts are stubborn things. Let's get the facts right, OK? I came in with a


 You know, Mike, you make up facts faster than you talk, and that's saying something. So let's slow it down and let's get the facts correctly.


 I came in, there was a $3 billion budget gap. Together with the legislature, we cut spending, we also raised fees, and we calculated how much money we raised in the fees.

It was $240 million. We can show you the number. And at the end of my first
year, we had a surplus. Every single year I was in office I generated a
surplus, and we put over a billion dollars in our rainy day fund.

Now, I asked you a question to begin with. And that was, net- net, did you
raise taxes in your state by half a billion dollars?


 You know, that's political speak.


 The question is -- you can avoid this issue by just saying


 I have never opposed the Bush 2002 tax cuts. I supported them. The first comment I made about the Bush tax cuts was that I supported the Bush tax cuts.

I do not oppose them. I support them, always have.

Now let me go back to the question I've asked you that you refused to answer
three times -- did you raise taxes, net, in Arkansas by $500 million?


 I agree.


 I think Fred raises, with a great deal of boldness, a very important topic, but I think reducing the initial benefit for retirees, even those of modest and moderate incomes, would be a big mistake. And I don't think that would be politically acceptable, and I think it would be wrong.

I think the idea, however, that Fred has described, which is having a
different index for higher income individuals, is something which has some
merit and which solves a big portion of the Social Security gap.

Added to that are personal accounts, which can have a higher rate of return
than what people currently get by having government debt behind their Social
Security


 And, finally, of course, is adjusting the retirement age. Those three things combined can solve the problem of Social Security, but I don't agree that we should cut the initial benefit calculation for modest income Americans who rely on Social Security for their retirement.


 Not with what he said. With what was on TV, yes, because you're not going to help the wage earner in America by attacking the wage payer in America. It's an old saying.

The truth of the matter is, it really is kind of offensive, I think, when I
watch our Democrats, or anybody else, for that matter, attacking corporations
that are creating jobs. I've spent 30 years in the private sector. I spent my
time learning how to build a small business. I built a small business and grew
it. I helped go back and turn around a company that was in trouble.

I'm proud of the fact that some of the companies we invested in created a lot
of jobs. I had some failures, too. I know what it's like to have to make a
tough decision. I've seen businesses go under. But I can tell you, I've been
in the economy, I've been there in the real world, and we need a president who
knows how the economy works, knows why jobs come and go, understands what the
competition from China really means and how to stand up to it.

We also need a president who knows how to shrink the federal government, and I
know how to take out people that aren't needed and how to take out programs
that aren't needed, and we need some of that in Washington.


 No, I guess I'd amend that slightly. He's been an agent of change. He's worked hard to bring change in certain areas, and he's done so.

But Washington is fundamentally broken. And one of the reasons I'm running for
president is that I believe that my lifetime of work in the private sector,
and in the voluntary sector, and as a governor has taught me how to bring
about fundamental change.

And Washington needs fundamental, top-to-bottom change. We're not going to
have somebody inside Washington turn Washington inside out, just not going to
happen.

We're going to have to change our spending habits and our taxing habits. We're
going to have to finally find a way to get ourselves energy independent and
energy secure.

We're going to have to fix education in this country. We need to get health
care for all of our citizens, free-market health care, not government health
care.

We've been talking about these things for decades and decades. And yet,
somehow, just sending the same people to Washington, but in different chairs,
is not going to result in a different outcome.

And that's why when people of this country have looked at the change that we
need in Washington, they say, "Let's bring someone in from the outside and
make that change." And I think it has to be somebody who's had executive
leadership, who's brought change.

Mayor Giuliani talked about what he brought into New York. And I mean -- I'm
sure you were thinking about you. And there's a very dramatic difference
between talking about change and getting together in the cloakroom and working
on a deal with other senators and actually having led an organization, with
executive leadership skill, helping turn around a business, or turned around
the Olympics, or turned around a state.

And that is something which I think America is crying for. They want to see
change in Washington. And you saw it on the Democratic Party with their caucus
out in Iowa. You saw it in our party with Governor Huckabee and myself leading
the field among people who were long-term experienced senators.

The answer is they want someone from the outside to deal with health care,
with education, to get taxes down, to get us energy independent, somebody who
knows how to deal with China economically so that we can make sure we don't
lose our jobs to China.

It's time for a dramatic and fundamental change in leadership in Washington.


  State Department and pick out somebody who's been at the Pakistan desk.


 But if you want a leader and a person who's led in critical times and in critical ways, I think I fit the bill.

(END VIDEO CLIP)


 That's been an argument and a position that's been raised over the decades in this country where senators have faced governors, running for president, and senators have said, look, I've been there, I know this issue, we've been inside one side, down the other. And governors have stood up and said, I've got the experience, the executive leadership experience, that we need in critical times.

And the American people, time after time, have said, I'm going to elect a
governor as president. And they've said that because they recognize that it's
very difficult to determine what the major issues are going to be during a
president's eight years. New things are going to pop up.

The economy may get in trouble, there may be a tsunami. We may have a flare-up
in some part of the world we hadn't anticipated. And what they're looking for
is a president, not a general or an expert in a particular area, but instead a
president who has judgment, wisdom, the ability to make difficult decisions,
has the temperament to make those kind of decisions, the calm under fire, the
willingness to reach out to other people, listen to ideas, exchange views,
establish on a deliberative basis, if you have the time, the information that
you need to make the right decision.

So the people of America, time after time, have made the choice to select a
leader, a person with executive leadership, and I think that's what the
American public ought to do today. I think that instead of saying, oh, let's
find who has the most expertise in a particular area that may be critical
right now, let's instead determine who's the person that brings the qualities
of leadership that are so essential in such a troubled time.

And we have a lot of challenges. We're facing an economic challenge from China
unlike anything we've ever known before, and India. We're facing schools that
are failing, health care that is leaving 47 million people behind, taxes which
are rising and rising out of control, energy costs. Here in New Hampshire,
you've got energy costs going up and up and up. Illegal immigration -- I was
surprised today to hear that the Clintons endorsed Senator McCain's
immigration plan.

We've got problems, and it's time to have a president, in my view, and it's
always time to have a president whose skill and expertise is in being an
executive leader.


 Absolutely. I was running a state at the time the war was being entered into, and so I was not commenting on Don Rumsfeld or upon the president's management of the war. I did go to Iraq and spent time there and said that I was encouraged by the success of creating a coalition government and by the vote that occurred. But I also indicated that it was apparent that there had been intelligence failures, and those intelligence failures did indeed lead to the fact that we were under-prepared and under-planned. There were some who said there would be dancing in the streets when we came into Baghdad, and there was, but for a short period of time.


 And our intelligence badly failed us in terms of understanding just how severe the crisis would be. We were understaffed by a dramatic amount.

And so I certainly was not looking at my shoes. I was running a state, and my
responsibility was to do that well, and I think I did a pretty good job. My
skill is in helping take on tough situations and be able to use judgment,
decision-making skill and the ability to draw on the wisdom of other people to
make good decisions.

And there have been great governors, Ronald Reagan being one of them, who
brought an unusual set of skills to confront the greatest, if you will,
foreign policy challenge we faced during the last century, the last half of
the last century. And I'm convinced that it does not take a United States
senator to become the president of the United States. It takes instead a
person, first and foremost, who has the skills of empathy, listening,
temperament, judgment, wisdom and decision making capacity.


 We certainly are a compassionate and humane people and we're also a people who believe in the rule of law and we know there are people, millions of people who are waiting in line patiently to be able to come to this country, people who want to be reunited with family members, people who have skills that we need in this country, people who speak English.

And somehow saying for the 12 million or however many million that are here,
"You all get to stay unless you committed a crime" -- I don't know how we know
that 2 million have committed crimes, but let's say that it's 2 million.


 You all get to stay -- get a job, pay $5,000 -- and you'll all get to stay in this country for the rest of your life. That strikes me as simply being unfair, unfair to the millions of people who have been waiting around the world.

When Senator McCain was asked about his plan back in 2003, he said amnesty
would have to be part of the solution. He used the word, and I believe that
amnesty in any form, whether technical amnesty or just de facto amnesty or
generally amnesty, it just doesn't work. The reason is, it attracts more
people to do the same thing that the people in the past have done.

It says, let's go to America, we know we're going to get to stay forever. It's
simply the wrong approach. We welcome people to get in line with everybody
else, but there should be no special pathway, no special privilege to remain
in this country for the rest of their lives.


 How about the kids in school, them, too, or not?


 Please, would you put his on? Please do.


 Well, actually, as you know, and as the people of both New Hampshire and Iowa know, I have spent a lot of money on ads over an entire year overwhelmingly focused on my positions and what I believe we ought to do for the country.

So my message has been very positive, and it's propelled me from a virtual
unknown to being well-known and pretty well respected in these two states, but
hats off to Mike for winning in Iowa, did a terrific job there.

I do think that there's a difference between an attack ad, where people go
after somebody based on their character, and describing someone's record. If
people think their record or their positions is an attack ad, that's a strange
thing.

In both cases, we verified the facts; we got information from respected
journals and so forth to put down the record and then let people compare the
differences.

Of course I focused on places where there are differences. But issues are
important. And describing differences on issues, like on illegal immigration
or on commutations and pardons, I think it's important.

Now, I should note that some of the ads that have come back or some of the
words that have come back have been very different than just talking about
issues. Senator McCain's ad was pretty tough.

Actually, I thought Mike's chairman was a little tougher. He said he wanted to
kick my teeth in. And I only commented that, well, don't touch my hair. That's
all I said.


 Just keep Ed back, will you?


 What I'd say is I'm certainly not the only person at this table that's changed their mind on a position. And I certainly would far be in favor of a person who has the willingness to say "I was wrong" and change their position and become right than someone who is so stubborn as to say they're not going to change their position.

So have I changed my position ever on an issue? Absolutely. I've told people
time and again that I was wrong when it came to the issue of abortion, and I
became pro life, and that was several years ago. I explained why it was and
I'm not going to apologize for that.

But I do think that in the political world, I understand that people are
characterizing one another, poke fun at you different things and that's part
of the political process. I'm not going to whine about that, but I want to
make sure that people understand what my record is and that it doesn't get
twisted and turned, just as Governor Huckabee doesn't want his record twisted
and turned.

We checked very carefully on the facts that we proposed. As he indicates, he
gave out 1,033 pardons. I gave out no pardons. He gave out 12 pardons to
convicted murderers. I gave out none. That's a difference.

Now he says, gosh, you've got to tell the rest of the story. Well, I've got a
30-second ad. I can't tell a lot of the story, other than to point out that
there are some differences.


 Chris, I got into this race because my family told me I ought to. And I agreed with them.

I love my kids. I love my grandkids. And I'm concerned about the America
they're going to inherit and the America that the kids of America are all
going to inherit.

And I'm concerned because America is at a crossroads. We face extraordinary
challenges, but also great opportunities. There has been more change and will
be more change in the next decade than we've seen during our lifetime.

And if America draws upon the strength of the American spirit and the
innovative capacity of our nation, which I know how to do -- I spent my life
doing that -- if we fix what's broken in Washington and get Washington to
finally deal with the challenges we have, from a comprehensive strategy to
overcome global jihad, to becoming energy independent over some period of
time, to fixing our schools, to getting health care for our citizens, to
keeping our tax burdens down, to protecting our jobs in this country, if we do
those things, this country's future will be even brighter than our past. I've
spent my life in a place where I've been able to bring change, whether it's
the private sector for 25 years, whether it was at the Olympics to help turn
those games around when they were in trouble, or as governor of Massachusetts.

And I will change Washington to make sure that the America our kids inherit is
every bit as great, even greater, than what we received from the greatest
generation.


 Well, first, Chris, let's get the record straight. Could we be headed for a recession? Absolutely. Do we have to be headed for a recession? Absolutely not. 

Recessions hurt working families. They hurt people across this country. Our
hearts go out to the people who are affected by job slowdowns and growth
slowdowns. And so this is something we're going to have to address in a very
aggressive way.

As to my record in the state of Massachusetts, I'm very proud of the fact that
after many, many months of declining job growth, I took over the state and
helped turn that around. And in my years as governor, we kept adding jobs
every single month after we saw that turnaround.

The pipeline for new jobs coming into our state was in single digits when I
came into office. When I left, it was over 200. And some of the biggest
employers are still coming into the state. Every month since I've left, we
keep on adding jobs. So I'm proud of what we did there.

What do we have to do at the federal level to keep a recession from occurring?

Number one, we're going to have to make sure that we stop the housing crisis.

Number two, we're going to have to reduce taxes on middle-income Americans
immediately.

Number three, we're going to have to deal with gas prices. We're going to have
to finally become energy independent and make the investments in new
technology that will allow us to get there.

And, finally, R&amp;D, investments in science and technology. That's an area
where America can continue to lead the world.

It's time for us not just to talk about improving our economy; we're going to
have to do the hard work of rebuilding our economy, strengthening it.

And I know that there are some people who think, as Senator McCain did, he
said, you know, some jobs have left Michigan that are never coming back. I
disagree.

I'm going to fight for every single job, Michigan, South Carolina, every state
in this country. We're going to fight for jobs and make sure that our future
is bright. We're going to protect the jobs of Americans and grow this economy
again.


 Carl, the decision to include abortion services in health care in Massachusetts was required by the court, not by the legislature, and certainly not by me as governor. 

My term as governor was decidedly pro-life. On every decision I could make as
governor, I came down on the side of life. And that's why the Massachusetts
Right to Life Association awarded me their leadership award after my term as
governor.

But let me come back to your other question about Ronald Reagan. Look, the
only way we're going to win the White House is by appealing to the coalition
that brought together the great strength that Ronald Reagan brought to
America.

What's happened in America is that Washington has moved away from the Reagan
coalition. The Republican Party, in some cases, has moved away from the Reagan
principles.

But the principles that Ronald Reagan espoused are what will allow us not only
to win the White House, but to keep America strong. Ronald Reagan was the
ultimate optimist. He was a person who had confidence in America and brought
back that spirit that we rely upon to be the strongest nation on Earth.

Ronald Reagan said we're going to have such a strong military, we'll out-
compete the Soviets, and he did. He said we're going to have such strong
families that the values of Americans will shine as an example of a shining
city on a hill for the entire world to see, and he did that.

And he also said we're going to have a strong economy, because he recognized
that the only way we can have strong families that have good health care, and
schools, and values, and a strong military is if our economy is powerful.

Knowing how America works is more important than knowing how Washington works.
And I've spent my life over the last 30 years learning how America works, how
our economy is the envy of the entire world.

And I want to make sure that in this time when our economy is a little
fragile, not sure where we're heading, that we strengthen that economy. That's
what I know how to do. I've seen jobs come and go; I'll make sure that jobs
come to America.


 I think Congressman Paul should not be reading as many of Ahmadinejad's press releases. But let's... 

(APPLAUSE)

I think Iran represents a very serious threat. I do not believe this action
was taken by rogue elements within the Iranian forces. I believe it was
calculated.

And I believe it was designed to test our defenses. I believe it was also
designed to rattle a sword to the Arab neighbors to see that they could go
after the Straits of Hormuz. I believe, as well, that it was a diversionary
tactic for them to consider other actions in other places.

And so I believe it was a very serious act. And the Iranians continue to take
acts like this, it points out that we have in Iran a very troubled nation.

And we're going to have to have a comprehensive strategy with our friends and
with some others who we need to pull into our circle of friendship to put
extraordinary pressure on Iran.

And I've been speaking since January about tightening dramatically the
economic sanctions, the diplomatic sanctions, directly communicating to the
Iranian people. And I believe -- by the way, I can see you want to get the
rest of the answer to that -- of course, this commander did exactly the right
thing. The captains did the right thing.


 And in the same circumstances, I will put my trust in the hands of these captains and their taking the right course. 

Of course they should take whatever action is necessary to protect their ships
and protect their personnel, but this is part of a much broader effort to get
Iran to finally pull into a more reasonable status. And that is something
which is going to take a more comprehensive strategy than simply thinking
about how we'd respond to gunboats like this.


 Well, let's stand back and recognize that, today, foreign policy is no longer like it was in the last century, which was more like a game of checkers that was our side and their side. We tried to get friends and allies and go after each other. 

Now foreign policy is more like three-dimensional chess, where we have to
understand all the players throughout the world and develop strategies to help
move the world towards more stability and safety for ourselves.

And our interests in Pakistan, just to make sure, number one, that the nuclear
weapons are secure; number two, we go after Al Qaida. And the power going
after Al Qaida is in General Kiyani, who is a friend, and our funds can go to
him and to the military to fight Al Qaida. And we will work with him to find
Osama bin Laden.

And if, for some reason, General Musharraf does not want to find Osama bin
Laden, then we need to make sure that General Kiyani does. And our support
will be key to being able to provide that kind of support to us.

But we also have to make sure that we're going to see a much more robust
effort throughout Pakistan to go after Al Qaida. We have these three efforts
that we're talking about: what's happening in Pakistan; what's happening in
Afghanistan; what's happening in Iraq; and also, of course, the potential
trouble in Iran.

But we need to think more broadly than just those hot spots and come together
with other developed nations, other free nations, as former Prime Minister
Aznar of Spain indicated, and develop an effort to help move the world of
Islam towards modernity.

We as great nations need to help them have the rule of law, have good schools
that are not Wahhabi schools, strengthen their economies. We need to become
very serious about moving the more moderate voices in the world of Islam to
great strength, so that we don't have to spend our blood around the world
fighting these wars.

We have to fight these, because they're hot spots, but ultimately we're going
to have to move the world of Islam, because ultimately Muslims themselves are
going to have to reject the extreme.


 No. 

(LAUGHTER)


 I have had the chance to do almost 200 town meetings across the country. I have listened to people from -- well, in a restaurant here called Lizard's Thicket, to places all over the country, and I keep hearing the same thing, which is that Washington is broken, that Washington has made promises to America it has not kept, and it seems incapable of dealing with the challenges that we face globally and here at home. 

I hear the people say they think we deserve health care for all our citizens
but not government health care. And that hasn't been done.

They say we ought to be able to get a reduction on the burden on the middle
class. And that hasn't been done.

They say we ought to solve the immigration problem in this country, protecting
legal immigration but ending illegal immigration. It hasn't been done.

They say there is too much pork barrel spending and earmarking in Washington.
That hasn't stopped.

And so the same people year after year make these promises and then go to
Washington and nothing happens. And so I'm convinced that you're going to see
the people say across this country that if you send the same people back to
Washington, just to sit in different chairs, nothing will happen.

My whole life has been about bringing change to things I have touched, to the
business world for 25 years and tried to bring change. Sometimes I did
positively -- not always, but I learned from that experience.

I went to the Olympics and turned those games around with the help of a
terrific team of people. I went to the state of Massachusetts when revenues
were falling, when jobs were falling. I helped turn that around.

I know how to bring change. And I will change Washington.

I will take it apart and put it back together simpler, smaller, smarter. But I
will bring change and I will honor the promises that the American people have
heard from me and from others who care about Republican principles.

(APPLAUSE)


 I didn't hear that answer, either. And I'd also tell you that all of us on this stage agree -- I believe, I don't know about Ron Paul, but I think everybody else agrees -- I just haven't heard your position; I don't mean to be critical -- that we secure the border, we have the fence, and we have enough Border Patrol agents to secure the border, and that we have an employment verification system of some kind. 

But the place of difference between us is what we do with the 12 million
people who are here illegally. We all agree that anybody who's committed a
crime should be sent home.

But I believe that the others who've come here illegally should stand in line
with everybody else who wants to come to this country and should not be given
a special pathway or a special privilege... (APPLAUSE)

... to be able to stay in this country. And that means that those that are
here illegally today would be looked at person by person, given a specific
time period by which they arrange their affairs, they stay here during that
time period. When that time period is over, they go home, and they get in line
with everybody else.

There are millions of people around the world who want to come here. We'll do
this in a humane and generous way, but we're not going to say to people who've
come here illegally, "You have a special pathway, a special privilege to
become a permanent resident or a citizen." Get in line with everybody else.

(APPLAUSE)


 Well, there's a great deal that is effective in his plan. I just wish it went further. What's effective is, first, he's getting money back to consumers. And given the fact that two-thirds of our economy is a consumer economy, getting money back into the hands of our citizens, a lot of them paying a lot for gasoline, a lot for heating oil, a lot of people concerned about how to make ends meet, that makes sense to me. Mine was a little different. It had a permanent tax cut for people at the lowest income tax bracket. I also have a savings plan for individuals that allows folks who are making under $200,000 a year to save their money tax free, no (interest on ?) interest, dividends or capital gains. I guess we can get to that later. But his first start to help the consumers is a good start. 

I just think we need to go further.

Second, we go to -- to corporate support and helping corporations have the
incentive to buy more capital equipment. That he also does. I do it more
aggressively than he does by writing off a larger amount of capital
expenditures -- getting companies to, frankly, buy more stuff so that as they
do so that other companies will hire people because if you want to turn an
economy around, the key thing is to grow jobs. It's not just to get checks in
the hands of consumers; it's consumers buying things that creates jobs. It's
companies buying things that create jobs.

And then finally, his last leg is with regards to helping the FHA take on a
broader array of -- of -- of homes that are in trouble, homeowners that are in
trouble. And that's really very important, and I'm appreciative of the fact
that the president took that step. We -- we really have across the country a
housing crisis, a mortgage crisis, that seems to have spilled out into the
entire economy, and -- and the effect of this, of course, is to put a lot of
pain against a lot of people. And so helping reverse the housing crisis is
critical.

And that's why expanding the FHA loan requirements, or excuse me, if you will,
loosening those requirements and expanding the ability of FHA to help out
homeowners would make a big difference. So net-net is something I support, and
I look forward to taking it further.


 I trust these two gentlemen and I respect them greatly. We do have differing views, and over time our record with regards to taxes has been somewhat different. But I think all of us on this stage want to see taxes brought down and want to see spending brought down. 

I have a sound record of doing that. I came into a state that faced an
extraordinary series of challenges. Massachusetts was in a ditch.

We had about a $3 billion budget shortfall. Everybody thought, we're going to
have to raise taxes to solve the problem.

And I went to work to get Massachusetts back on track. Working with Democrats
across the aisle, we were able to do that without raising taxes. And that was
critical, because it said to the business community, you don't have to worry
about Taxachusetts coming back again; you're going to see Massachusetts live
within its means. We balanced the budget every one of four years. We also put
in place a surplus of over $2 billion to help make sure that we'd have the
kind of resources that would be needed if there were a rainy day.

Now, I also support the Bush tax cuts. Senator McCain voted against them
originally. He now believes they should be made permanent. I'm glad he agrees
they should be made permanent. I think he should have voted for them the first
time around, and that's just a difference of viewpoint.

The Bush tax cuts helped get our economy going again when we faced the last
tough times. And that's why right now, as we face tough times, we need to have
somebody who understands, if you will, has the private sector, has the
business world, has the economy in their DNA. I do.

I spent my life in the private sector. I know how jobs come and I know how
they go, and I'll make sure that we create more good jobs for this nation. And
one way to do that is by holding down taxes and making those tax cuts
permanent.


 I'm not going to run on that record, I'll tell you that. I'm going to run on my own record. I'm going to run on my record of having been in the private sector for 25 years, my record for having helped turn around the Olympics, my record as the governor of Massachusetts. I'll run on that record of accomplishment. 


 What I'll do is I'll run away from the record of Washington. 

You see, Washington is fundamentally broken. Washington has made promises to
us over the last decade that they just haven't been able to fulfill. You can
go down the list. They said they'd solve the problem of Social Security; they
haven't. They said they'd rein in spending; we got all sorts of people --
almost every congressman and senator says they're going to cut spending, cut
those earmarks, cut that -- that mentality in Washington, but somehow every
year more and more and more money goes in.

They said they'd live by high ethics. They haven't.

They said they'd solve the problem of illegal immigration. They haven't.

They said they'd get us off of foreign oil. They haven't.

Issue after issue that's been raised over the past couple -- three decades
have been -- those have been spoken about, and Washington has failed to
deliver. And I'm not --


 Both parties. And change is going to have to begin with us, in our party. We're the party of change. We are the party of fiscal responsibility, and when Republicans act like Democrats, America loses. And you've seen that over the last several years. 

We're going to have to make sure that we rein in spending. It's not just the
-- we -- we all agree on the -- the earmarks and the pork barrel spending and
the "Bridge to Nowhere." That's -- that's an easy one to take a shot at. But
the big one is entitlements and reining in entitlement costs, and that's --
that's where the big dollars are.

And then you go on to say how are we going to bring down taxation, because we
have the highest tax rate, next to Japan, in the world. That's -- that hurts
our economy.

What you're seeing in a weakening dollar, in a declining stock market, in --
in foreign countries coming here to -- to buy into our banks, you're seeing an
underground -- the foundation of our economy being shaken by the fact that we
haven't been doing the job that needs to be done in Washington. And I'm going
to Washington to change Washington.


 Well, I'm recommending that we add 100,000 active- duty personnel to our military. We're right now at about 1.5 million. Take that up to about 1.6 million. 

We found in our state that we were losing enrollees for the National Guard at
about 6 percent per year. And the legislature and I got together and passed
something called the Welcome Home Bill. We said, you know what; if you'll sign
up for the National Guard, we'll pay for your entire education for four years.

We put in some other benefits as well -- life insurance and other features
that we decided to pay for. And the result of that was, the next year
enrollments went up 30 percent. And so if we want more people to sign up for
the military, we have to improve the deal.

And -- and frankly, our GI Bill has gotten a little old. We need to update our
funding level for that, so that young people who go into the military get a
full ride as they come home and get to go into college.

But let me step back also and just talk about what we saw the other night with
the Democratic debate, as we think about the commitment that needs to be made
to Iraq and Afghanistan. It is simply unthinkable that the Democrats would
have said at that debate, when they were asked, "What's more important to you,
that we get out or that we win," that with their answer -- they wouldn't
answer it directly, but with each of their answer, it was very clear getting
out was their only objective, just get out as fast as you can, regardless of
the consequences. And that's simply wrong. We cannot turn Iraq over to al
Qaeda and have al Qaeda have a safe haven from which they could recruit people
to carry out bombings, to attack this country and our friends around the
world. It's unthinkable. And that's why I will not walk away from Iraq until
we have been successful and finish that job.

And one more thing. What -- what an audacious and arrogant thing for the
Democrats to say, as Hillary Clinton did, that they are responsible for the
progress that the surge has seen, by virtue of their trying to pull out so
quickly.

Look, the success over there is due to the -- the blood and the courage of our
servicemen and -women, and to General Petraeus and to President Bush, not to
General Hillary Clinton.


 It was the right decision to go into Iraq. I supported it at the time; I support it now. 

It was not well managed in the -- after the takedown of Saddam Hussein and his
military. That was done brilliantly, an extraordinary success. But in the
years that followed, it was not well -- we were undermanaged, underprepared,
underplanned, understaffed, and then we come into the phase that we have now.
The plan that President Bush and General Petraeus put together is working.
It's changing lives there.

And perhaps most importantly, it's making sure that al Qaeda and no other
group like them is becoming a superpower, if you will, in the communities, and
having a safe haven from which they launch attacks against us.

It's critical for us. When we think about debating the Democrats, they might
want to go back and talk about what happened at the beginning. But the most
important issue is what do we do now, and their just run and retreat
regardless of the consequences is going to be a real problem for them when
they face a debate with a Republican on the stage.


 I think Governor Huckabee raised a good question when he spoke about China and the impact of China. I think what you're seeing in the world is that as the emergence of Asia occurs, that the demand for more oil around the world is driving prices very high. The Chinese are supplying to us today toys and Christmas tree ornaments and dog food, but they're going to want to make jumbo jets and patents for various medicines and software. They're going to be a much tougher competition, China is, competitor, than we have seen from Europe in a long time. 

And the question that I have is, how are we going to make sure that as we
compete with China, and I'm going to address this to Mayor Giuliani, as we
compete with China, how do we make sure that trade is done in a way that
levels the playing field? How do we make sure that China stabilizes the world
economically, but that we protect American industry and American jobs, and do
not cause a departure of jobs from this country? What kind of relations do we
need to have with China economically?

I know our military issues but economically, Mayor, what kinds of things do
you think we can do to make sure that the trade is done at a level playing
field, and where American industries are strengthened and not put in jeopardy
by virtue of the growth of this great part of the world?


 I do support the Second Amendment, and I believe that this is an individual right of citizens and not a right of government. And I hope the Supreme Court reaches that same conclusion. 

I also, like the president, would have signed the assault weapon ban that came
to his desk. I said I would have supported that and signed a similar bill in
our state. It was a bill worked out, by the way, between pro-gun lobby and
anti-guy lobby individuals. Both sides of the issue came together and found a
way to provide relaxation in licensing requirements and allow more people to
-- to have guns for their own legal purposes. And so we signed that in
Massachusetts, and I said I'd -- I would would support that at the federal
level, just as the president said he would. It did not pass at the federal
level.

I do not believe we need new legislation.

I do not support any new legislation of an assault weapon ban nature,
including that against semiautomatic weapons. I instead believe that we have
laws in place that, if they're implemented and enforced, will provide the
protection and the safety of the American people. But I do not support any new
legislation, and I do support the right of individuals to bear arms, whether
for hunting purposes or for protection purposes or any other reasons. That's
the right that people have.


 The answer is yes, I do support some kind of national catastrophic effort to make sure that people can get homeowner's insurance that protects them against flood or hurricane or tornado or whatever natural disaster might occur, or man-made disaster in some cases. 

We had the problem not just in Florida, but we also had the problem in
Massachusetts. Those poor folks that are snow birds, that go from
Massachusetts to Florida, see it in both states, because people who live along
the coastline across the Atlantic have the same problem. Getting homeowner's
insurance is oftentimes almost impossible.

And so what we're going to have to do, as you just indicated, we're going to
have to work together to create a program that gets people in high-risk areas
insured. Now, I'm not in favor of saying that the people in Iowa should have
to subsidize the people in Massachusetts or the people in Florida -- that
doesn't make a lot of sense -- but to have those states that are in high-risk
areas come together and say, "How do we organize an effort on a national basis
that actuarially deals with the differences between different states and the
different risks they face and make sure that we have a backstop behind the
private insurance industry?"

That makes a lot of sense, and that's something which I -- well, frankly, I
took on tough problems like that in health insurance. People thought it was
impossible to get everybody health insurance. And I got a group of people
together from the industry, from government, from academics. We came together
and we found a way to get everybody insured with private free-market health
insurance. And I want to do the same thing with regards to --


 Well, that's a whole different question, so we'll come back and talk about our health insurance plan. 


 But I do support an effort to get everybody some form of catastrophic coverage. And it may be a public-private partnership between private insurance industries and the federal government. It may be done with the states. But I'll bring together the governors of all 50 states, as well as leadership in Washington, as well as industry representatives, to say, "What's the right way to fashion this that makes the most sense for the people of America?" 


 I frankly can't wait, because the idea of Bill Clinton back in the White House with nothing to do is something I just can't imagine. I can't imagine the American people can imagine. And -- (laughter) -- and I -- 


 I -- I just think that we want to have a president, not a whole -- a team of husband and wife thinking that they're going to run the country, and instead you want to elect a president. 

But I'm not going to run on the basis of Bill Clinton. If Hillary Clinton is
the nominee, it's going to be Hillary Clinton. It's going to be her position
and her postures on -- on a whole series of issues. And frankly, she is so out
of step with the American people on everything from taxes -- she wants to
raise taxes. She has a plan for health care. Her health care plan, quite
simply, is one which says, look, we're going to give health insurance to
everybody by the government. It's going to cost $110 billion more every single
year -- trillion-plus dollars over 10 years. Her approach to the war in Iraq:
just get out as fast as you can. Just -- don't even think about the sacrifice
that's been made or the need to keep al Qaeda from establishing safe havens.
She is exactly what's wrong in Washington.

I said before Washington is broken. She is Washington to the core. She's been
there too long. Bill Clinton's been there too long. The last thing America
needs is sending the Clintons back to Washington. Look, sending the same
people back to Washington expecting a different result is not going to get
America on track, and I'm going to make sure that we strengthen this country
and we do it the old-fashioned Republican way -- the Ronald Reagan way of
pulling together economic conservatives, social conservatives and foreign
policy/national defense conservatives. I speak to those three groups. I will
pull them together. That's how we'll win the election, and that's also how
we're going to keep the country strong and vibrant.


 In Florida? We'll report that on the -- on the 31st of January as required by law, and probably not a minute earlier. You'll just have to wait, Tim. 


 Well, I'm not concerned about the voters. I'm much more concerned about the other guys on this stage. And we have some -- it's competitive information we make sure that we use for our own benefit. 

But I can tell you this. I have raised more money than any other Republican in
this race. Raised more. Friends of mine have come together, people I knew in
high school, and helped raise money for me. So I've raised more money.

And I've also made a very substantial contribution. Not as much, by the way,
as John Corzine did to become governor of New Jersey. Not as much as Steve
Forbes did when he ran back some years ago. Certainly not as much as Mayor
Bloomberg did in his race. But I made a substantial contribution. I can't
imagine having gone to my friends and asked them to do what they've done,
going out and raising money in my behalf, without saying I'm going to put some
of my contributions behind this effort as well, because frankly, I think it's
important.

And one thing's real clear. Given the contributions I made in this race, I
know I owe no one anything. I don't have some group there that I have a
special obligation to that raised money for me. I'm by far the biggest
contributor to my own campaign. And people can count on the fact that there's
no nobody that can call me and say, "Hey, look, you owe me," because they
don't. I'm in this race because I want to make a difference for America.


 You know, this is always raised any time someone makes a contribution to their own campaign. And the answer is, I care very deeply about this. I've been successful in life, enough to be able to save enough money. And I'm using that money in a campaign for a presidency to try and change this country. 

I'm concerned about the America my kids will inherit and their kids will
inherit and the kids of the entire nation will inherit, and I want to make
sure that we have a strong and vibrant nation. And I happen to think that at a
time like this, we need someone whose life has been in the private sector, who
knows how America works; not just how Washington works, but how America works.


 And for that reason, I'm giving it my all. 


 You know, I just don't believe that people in this country are going to choose their -- their candidate based on which church he or she goes to. I just don't believe that. 

And you know, polls ask people a lot of questions, and my faith isn't terribly
well known around this country, but I don't think for a minute the American
people are going to say, you know what, we're not going to vote for this guy
for a secular position because of his church. I just don't believe it.

I think when the Constitution and the founders said no religious test shall
ever be required for qualification for office or public trust in these United
States that the founders meant just that. And I don't believe for a minute
that Republicans, or Americans for that matter, are going to impose a
religious test when the founders said it's as un-American as anything you can
think of.

And so I believe that I'll ultimately get the nomination. I can't be sure of
that, but I'm -- I'm pretty confident. And I believe in a head-to-head with
Hillary Clinton the differences in our perspectives on how to get America
going again and how to get us on the right track are as different as night and
day. She takes her inspiration from the Europe of old, Big Brother, big
government and big taxes. I take mine from Republican ideals: small
government, small taxes, individual freedom. I believe that free American
people are the source of America's greatness.

And so I don't think you're going to see religion figuring into this race
after people have had a chance to get to know all the candidates.


 I'm not going to raise taxes. What I'm going to do -- 


 Yeah -- 


 No, I don't want to raise taxes. I've pointed out that -- that of the four ways to solve the -- the shortfall in Social Security, the worst idea is to raise taxes on the American people, because it has a double -- double whammy. 

Not only are you taking money away from their pocketbooks, you're also slowing
down the economy. You slow down the economy, more people lose work. More
people lose work, of course, you're having a lot of folks that really have
their lives turned upside down. So, raising taxes is just something you don't
want to do.

The other -- there are three other ways that you can solve the problem of
Social Security, and they're ways that have been brought forward by a number
of Republicans over the years. We're going to have to sit down with the
Democrats and say, let's have a compromise on these three elements that could
get us to bring Social Security into economic balance.

What are they? Well, number one, you can have personal accounts where people
can invest in something that does better than government bonds -- with some
portion of their Social Security. Number two, you can say we're going to have
the initial benefit calculations for wealthier Americans calculated based on
the Consumer Price Index rather than the wage index. That saves almost two-
thirds of the shortfall. And then number three, you can change the retirement
age. You can make -- push it out a little bit. And so those are the three
arithmetic things you can do.

There's going to have to be an agreement reached, Republicans and Democrats.
Senator Judd Gregg has introduced legislation cosponsored by a Democrat saying
put an equal number of Republicans and Democrats in a committee, have them
work together, come up with a compromise, bring it forward, require a
60-percent vote to get the job done.

And those are the three that I think are -- are the ones that have to be
pursued for us to solve the issue of Social Security

But don't forget, let's not scare anybody listening in who's on Social
Security or near Social Security. It's not going to change the current
program. It's not going to change for anybody who's already in retirement or
near retirement. But we have to be honest to the people coming along. The
program's going to have to change for 20- and 30- and 40-year-olds.


 Gosh, that's -- that's tough on their part. But you know, I'm not terribly worried about their -- about their attacks, frankly. I'm not going to Washington to make friends with politicians. I'm going to Washington to change things. So I'm not going to worry about that one. 

I can tell you that I am -- I'm -- I'm proud of the things that we've been
able to do in my state. And when people come after me and -- and say, "Hey,
where do you stand on this," or "where do you stand on that," I can point to a
very simple way to find out exactly where I stand, and that is, look at my
record as governor. Every issue that we're talking about in this race that's
of a domestic nature I dealt with as the governor of Massachusetts.

And so on the issue of -- of abortion, for instance, I came down on the side
of life, consistently, as governor, in every way I knew how I could do that.
At the end of my term, I got awarded by the Citizens for Life in Massachusetts
the Leadership Award, for my service in that regard.

In terms of marriage, as the governor, I fought same-sex marriage every way I
could find a way to do that. And I actually went to Washington -- Washington
to testify in favor of an amendment to preserve the sanctity of marriage.

I also have a very clear record with regards to taxes. I said I was not going
to raise taxes, lowered them 19 times, balanced the budget four times, created
surpluses that reestablished a rainy-day fund of over $2 billion.

I have a sound record also with regards to the Second Amendment. As I
indicated, the legislation I signed was legislation worked out between two
sides, two very different sides who came together to find ways to make the
Second Amendment work in our state.

So I got a record that's solid. I know that now and then my opponents will try
and cause questions to arise in people's minds, but I'm proud of where I
stand. And I'm happy to show people my record, to show it's been consistent.


 Well, if you're voting for George Bush, you'd be very interested in knowing the answer to that. If you're voting for 

Mitt Romney, you'd like to know are you better off in Massachusetts after four
years of my term in office, and the answer would be decidedly yes.

I came into a state which was very much in a deep ditch. It was losing money
every month. We had a $3 billion budget gap. We had people losing jobs every
single month. During my predecessor's term, we lost 160,000 jobs. We kept
losing jobs for a couple of years. We got it turned around, began adding jobs
back. We won some huge contracts to bring in some new employers into the
state. Some of the haven't even built their facilities yet. We solved our
budget problem, $3 billion budget gap, without raising taxes. We were able to
do that in a way that I think surprised folks.


 Well, again, I'm pleased with what I did while I was -- as governor. I'm happy to talk that record. With regard to -- with -- 


 Well, I'm not -- but I'm not running on President Bush's record. President Bush can talk about his record. 

Washington is badly broken. I think we recognize that. Washington has not
dealt with the problems that we have in this nation, hasn't reduced burdens on
our middle class, hasn't solved the Social Security problems, hasn't dealt
with the health care crisis that we have in this country, hasn't improved our
schools as much we'd like to get them improved.

Nevertheless, this president did pull us out of a deep recession. He put in
place two tax cuts, which did get the -- your country out of a recession and
helped rebuild the country.

Now we see ourselves headed apparently towards one again. We hope not. Whether
there's a recession technically or not, one thing we know. Middle-income
families are feeling squeezed, and people are losing homes. And people are
having a hard time paying for their gasoline, and they're having a hard time
paying for heating oil in places that that's a big part of their life.

And as a result, we get people that feel there needs to be a change in
Washington, and that's something I represent.


 I'm sure, on many issues, he does, and he's a good Republican. I wouldn't question those credentials at all, but there are a number of pieces of legislation where his views are out of the mainstream, at least in my view, of conservative Republican thought. 

So, for instance, he's opposed to drilling in ANWR, I believe.

If I'm wrong, correct me, Senator.

He voted twice against the Bush tax cuts. Only two Republicans did that. He is
the co-author of McCain-Feingold, which I think took a whack at the First
Amendment, and I do believe it's well hurt our party pretty significantly. And
I think it's made money have an even greater influence in politics today, not
less influence.

He also was one of the co-authors of McCain-Kennedy. The first bill, by the
way, not that bad -- about 5 or 10 percent of the people, by our calculation,
got a form of amnesty. Most people went home. Under the final version of
McCain-Kennedy, everybody who was here illegally, other than those who
committed crimes, was eligible to receive a Z visa. For $3,000, they got to
stay here for the rest of their life. That's not a Republican thought.

And then now McCain-Lieberman, which is a unilateral, meaning U.S.-only-
imposed, cap-and-trade program, which puts a burden, as much as 50 cents a
gallon, on gasoline in this country.

It basically says Americans are going to pay for the cost of global warming,
not the Chinese and Indians and so forth.

So those views are outside the mainstream of Republican conservative thought.
And I guess I'd also note that if you get endorsed by The New York Times,
you're probably not a conservative. (Laughs.) (Laughter.)


 (I'd say ?) the same thing. 


 Okay. (Chuckles.) I got a little work to do here. Let me -- let me help you with the facts here, Senator. 

First of all, my lieutenant governor, Kerry Healey, endorsed me and is
supporting me and is working all over the state for me. My predecessor in
office, Governor Swift, Governor Swift is supporting you. When you say that
our state ranked number three in job creation, the study you're relying upon
is a study that included her term in office, and during her term in office,
141,000 jobs were lost. During my term in office we added jobs, and from the
lowest point we added 60,000 new jobs.

So that study unfortunately included the wrong data.

With regards to fees, we raised fees $240 million, not $730 million. Facts are
stubborn things. We audited our fee increase, because, of course, we cared.

Now, why did we raise fees 230 million -- $240 million? We had a $3 billion
budget shortfall. We decided we were not going to raise taxes. And we found
that some fees hadn't been raised in as many as 20 years.

These were not broad-based fees for things getting your driver's license or
your license plate for your car, but instead something like the cost of a sign
on the interstate and how much it was going to cost to publish a McDonald's or
Burger King sign on the -- on the interstate. We went from like $200 a sign to
$2,000 a sign, to raise money for our state in a way that was consistent with
what the market had done over the ensuing years.

And let's see. Oh, with regards to my health care plan, you know, a lot of
people talk about health care. I'm the only one that got the job done. I got
health insurance for all our citizens. We had 460,000 people without
insurance. We got 300 of them -- 300,000 of them signed up for insurance now.
I'm proud of what we accomplished.

The bill that I submitted to the legislature didn't cost one dollar more than
what we were already spending. However, the legislature and now the new
Democratic governor have added some bells and whistles, and they're willing to
pay for them.

I wouldn't do that if I were governor. I'd veto the items they put in place
there, but they're entitled to make changes if they want to. They're still
running a balanced budget.

I wouldn't have added the money they did and by they way, no debt was left. I
left a rainy day fund of over $2 billion. Facts are stubborn things. I'm proud
of my record.


 Well, let's talk about each. I mentioned fees, and I think it's appropriate if the state is providing a service to someone -- that's not a requirement to have a car or a driver's license, but instead, let's say, we're going to be taking out a oil tank from your backyard because it's leaking into the ground and the state's going to provide that service, that to charge a fee sufficient to do so makes a lot of sense. And so the fees ought to be adjusted from time to time to compose the amount of what the cost of providing that service, and if there hasn't been a fee raise in a couple of decades, you probably have some inflation in there you ought to adjust for. 

But then secondly, with regards to my health care plan, let me describe what I
think is the ultimate conservative approach. In this country you have today
about 47 million people that don't have health insurance. We went out and
tried to find out why they don't. We found out that about half of them could
afford to buy insurance if it were reasonably priced; they could afford to buy
it, but they weren't buying it. And we asked them why, and they said, well,
why should we buy it? If we get sick, we can go to the hospital and get care
for free. And we said, you know what? If somebody could afford insurance, they
should either by the insurance or pay their own way.

They don't have to buy insurance if they don't want to, but pay their own way.
But they shouldn't be allowed just to show up at the hospital and say,
"Somebody else should pay for me."

And so we said no more free riders. It was like bringing workfare to welfare.
We said if you can afford insurance, then either have the insurance or get a
health savings account, pay your own way, but no more free ride. And that was
what the mandate did. It said you've got to come up with either the insurance
or health savings account or alike.

I think it's the conservative approach to make sure that people who can afford
care are getting it at their expense, not at the expense of the taxpayers and
government. That I consider to be a step towards socialism.


 Well, I said with states to be able to make their own regulations with regards to emissions within their own states. 

But let's talk about our policies with regards to greenhouse gases and global
warming. I think we all agree that America should become energy independent.

The consequences of us continuing to buy over a billion dollars of oil a day
from people who oftentimes use this money against us -- it's bad for our
economy, it's bad for our foreign policy, and all that energy being used is
probably bad for our environment. It's probably warming our environment, and
we want that to stop.

So a unilateral action to get ourselves off of foreign oil makes all the sense
in the world. Nuclear power, biodiesel, biofuel, all the renewables, liquefied
coal, where you sequester the carbon dioxide -- those things make all the
sense in the world. But when you put in place a new cap or a mandate and
particularly if you don't have any safety valve as to how much the cost that
cap might be, you would impose on the American people -- if you do it
unilaterally, without involving all the world -- you'd impose on the American
people a huge new effective tax: 20 percent on utilities, 50 cents a gallon
for gasoline -- that's according to the Energy Information Agency -- would be
imposed on us.

And here's what happens. I've lived in the business world. I've lived in the
real economy for 25 years of my life. What happens if you do that, if you put
a big burden on energy in this country, is the energy intensive industries say
we're going to move our new facilities from America to China where they don't
have those agreements, and you end up polluting and putting just as much CO2
in the air because the big energy users go there. That's why these ideas make
sense, but only on a global basis.

They don't call it America warming. They call it global warming.

That's why you've got to have a president that understands the real economy.


 There's no question but that investment in infrastructure makes enormous sense for our country. It's good for business. It's good for the economy. And as the governor that watched the completion -- well, almost the completion of the Big Dig -- I think that was -- I don't know how many governors watched that $15 billion project. They do create a lot of good jobs and they help our economy; they're great things. But unfortunately, a road project isn't going to stimulate the economy in the time frame we have right now, at the tipping point. 


 Well, as someone once said -- it leaks badly, of course, so someone has remarked that it's the biggest carwash in America, and most expensive, too. It solved a problem, but it cost way too much money to do it, was very badly managed. 

But that being said, an economic stimulus plan has to put money in the hands
of consumers and businesses and homeowners now. And the reason we're asking
Congress to move within 30 days is we want to get that out there now so the
economy doesn't tip down.

Building a road project, you have to get designs, eminent domain, you get the
engineers to approve; it takes years and years and years to get a road
project. So it's a wonderful idea, but it's not related to short-term economic
stimulus.


 I appreciate his response and appreciate the fact he was part of the Reagan Revolution. I think that the Bush revolution and the downturn that we faced when he came into office suggested that we needed a tax cut. There's no question in my mind that Ronald Reagan would have said "sign it and vote for it," and Senator McCain was one of two that did not. And again, the justification at the time was because it represents a tax cut for the rich. I believe in getting rates down. I think that builds our economy. 

When we talk about spending, however, I hope people in the country understand
that most people in Washington, most politicians generally, want to talk about
the two-and-three-and-four-dollar relative items. They won't talk about the
big one.

Right now federal spending is about 60 percent for entitlement -- Social
Security, Medicare and Medicaid -- and that's growing like crazy. It'll be 70
percent entitlements, plus interest, by the time of the next president's
second term.

And then the military is about 20 percent today. No one's talking about
cutting the military. We ought to grow it. So people talk about the 20 percent
and how we have to go after that 20 percent.

There's not enough in the 20 percent to go after if we don't go after the
entitlement problem.

And you listen to all the folks running for president. No one wants to talk
about it, but we have to talk about it. We have to put together a plan that
says we're going to rein in the excessive growth in those areas, promising to
meet the obligations we made to seniors.

We're not going to change the deal on seniors but we're going to have to
change the deal for 20-and-30-and-40-year-olds, or we're going to bankrupt our
country.


 I think you may be confusing me with somebody else, but perhaps not. Let me tell you what my plan is. 


 Okay. 


 Yeah, my plan is this, which is, for those that have come here illegally and are here illegally today, no amnesty. Now how do people return home? Under the ideal setting, at least in my view, you say to those that have just come in recently, we're going to send you back home immediately; we're not going to let you stay here, you just go back home. For those that have been here, let's say, five years and have kids in school, you allow kids to complete the school year, you allow people to make their arrangements and allow them to return back home. Those that have been here a long time with kids that have responsibilities here and so forth you let stay enough time to organize their affairs and go home. 

But the key is this: These individuals are free to get in line with everyone
else that wants to become a permanent resident or citizen, but no special
pathway; no special deal that says because you're here illegally you get to
stay here for the rest of your life. And that's what I've found to be so
offensive with the Z Visa, which was in the McCain-Kennedy bill. It said to
all illegal aliens, unless you're a criminal, you're all allowed to stay here
for $3,000 for the rest of your life.

And that's a mistake.

In my view, let us have this fixed period of time, 90 days for some, depending
on their circumstances, others longer, to the end of the school year, even
longer, potentially, do it in a humane and compassionate way; but say to those
that have come here illegally, you must return home, you must get in line with
everybody else that wants to come here. There are millions throughout the
world who want to come to this country legally. It's a wonderful privilege.
But those that have come here illegally should not be given a better deal.

I was just at the swearing-in of some 700 citizens just a day or two ago in
Tampa, Florida, and it was a thrilling thing to see these folks coming out,
shaking their hands. People who come here legally are a great source of
vitality and strength for our country, but illegal immigration, that's got to
end. (Applause.)


 I would approve justices -- I would have favored justices like Roberts and Alito, Scalia and Thomas. I like justices that follow the Constitution, do not make law from the bench. I would have much rather had a justice of that nature. 


 I don't think we'd say it's better off than it was eight years ago, to be truthful. 

I think the eight years that you've seen, and I don't blame that on President
Bush. I blame that on Washington. I look at what he tried to do. He took on
some tough issues. He took on Social Security, for instance, put forward a
plan to reform Social Security. And the other side of the aisle said, what, me
worry; we got no problem. And they were unwilling to become engaged and to
take that on.

He was hit by something which completely took his agenda off course, and that
was the Iraq conflict and the attack of 9/11 and Afghanistan. All these things
came together. He did something for our party that was important to do, which
is to show that when someone attacks America, there will be consequences. And
he kept us safe these last six years. (Applause.)

And that's a very important legacy that he left for the Republican Party in a
positive way, and I watch with horror as I watch the Democratic candidates for
president all having a competition.

When asked, is it more important that we win in Iraq or that we get out, it
was very clear in the answer of all three candidates getting out was more
important than winning, and they're wrong. And I'm pleased that this president
has stood for strength.

There are places, however, that I think you look and say we've weakened
ourselves. One is with regards spending. We have overspent in Washington. Even
discretionary funds have gone up well above inflation. I'd cap inflation less
1 percent, but that was a problem. We did not deal with entitlements. He
tried; he did not get the support he needed. He did fight for better schools.
I think No Child Left Behind takes the ball forward, not backward. So we made
some progress.

But we're in a house that Reagan built. It's important that we, as
Republicans, stay in the house that Reagan built. If we want to take the White
House again, social, economic and foreign policy conservatives have to come
together.


 Absolutely unequivocably (sic) -- (chuckles) -- if I can get that word out -- unequivocably (sic), absolutely no. I have never ever supported a specific timetable for exit from Iraq, and it's offensive to me that someone would suggest that I have. And I have noted that everyone from Time Magazine to Bill Bennett over there, to -- to actually, CNN's own analyst. He said it was a lie, and it's absolutely wrong. 

I do not support that, never have.

We've had -- we've -- and Senator McCain pointed to an interview I had back in
April with ABC, when I said that our president and their prime minister should
have timetables and milestones. We have timetables and milestones for progress
that we're making together.

But I never suggested a date specific to withdraw. And actually she asked me a
question. The next question was, "If Congress were to give you a date specific
for withdrawal, would you sign it or veto it?" I said I'd veto it. I'm opposed
to setting a specific date for withdrawal.

By the way, we've had since that time 10, 12 debates. Senator McCain never
raised that question in any of those debates. If you ever wondered what my
position was, he could have -- could have raised it.

I instead have pointed out time and time again -- and let me make it
absolutely clear again tonight -- I will not pull our troops out until we have
brought success in Iraq. And that means for me that we do not have safe havens
for al Qaeda or Hezbollah or anyone else; that our troops have secured the --
the population from that kind of threat; that they will not have safe havens
from which they could launch attacks against us.

And if there's any misunderstanding, those words should make it perfectly
clear, as have every single debate that I've attended -- 15 debates -- I do
not propose nor have I ever proposed a public or secret date for withdrawal.
It's -- is simply wrong.

And by the way, raising it a few days before the -- the Florida primary, when
there was very little time for me to correct the record, when the question I
was most frequently asked is, "Oh, you're for a specific date of withdrawal,"
sort of falls in the kind of dirty tricks that I think Ronald Reagan would
have found to be reprehensible.

(Applause, cheers.)


 Why don't you use the whole quote, Senator? 


 Why do you insist on not using the actual quote? 

That's not what I said.


 What does that mean? What does that mean, we don't want them -- 


 Is it not fair to have the person, who's being accused of having a position he doesn't have, be the expert on what his position is? How is it that you're the expert on my position, when my position has been very clear? (Cheers, applause, cross talk.) 


 That's a separate point. 


 That's a separate point. That's a separate point. 


 If you have a question on this, you can ask it. 


 That we have a series of timetables and milestones for working on the progress that they're making, the progress we're making, the rule of law, what their soldiers are doing, what our soldiers are doing -- 


 \-- how many troops they're able to recruit, how well-trained are they. And as a matter of fact, the individual asked in the following question, do you have a specific time? Would you support Congress if they gave you a specific time? 


 I said absolutely not. 


 And by the way, this has been around. If this was a question, it could have been raised in April or May -- 


 \-- but it was raised -- 


 Senator -- 


 Senator McCain -- 


 Look, as a governor of a state, there are a lot of issues of a federal nature that I didn't take a position on. I was running a state. My responsibility was for running a state. When I became a governor I took a whole series of positions on national issues. That's normal and natural. 

With regards to the surge, the briefing that I received -- I received an early
briefing from Fred Kagan on the size of our military. After I received that, I
said I support increasing our military by at least 100,000. And then just
prior to the president's announcement of the surge, I spoke again with Fred
Kagan and he laid out the philosophy of the surge, his vision for it. As you
know, many consider him one of the authors of the surge idea. And when he gave
me that report, I met with my staff and announced that day that I supported a
surge. The president announced later that day the entire program. So I
supported it as a candidate for president, number one.

Number two -- number two -- with regards to this idea that I favor a specific
date for withdrawal, I do not. We've had -- I believe since that interview
that the senator quotes, we've had 10 or 12 debates. He's never raised that
issue with me.

He's never said, "Are you for a date specific?" I've been asked that question
time and again. Last debate we had, I said I will not leave Iraq until we have
secured Iraq, to make sure it'll never become a safe haven.

And -- and what's interesting here is, it's an attempt to do the -- the
Washington-style old politics, which is lay a charge out there, regardless of
whether it's true or not, don't check it, don't talk to the other candidate,
just throw it out there, get it in the media, in the stream. There's not a
single media source that I've seen that hasn't said it was reprehensible. Even
The --


 \-- even The New York Times said it was wrong. The Washington Post. The -- they endorsed you. The Washington Post gave you three Pinocchios for it. (Laughter.) 


 It's simply -- it's simply wrong. 


 And the senator knows it. And the -- and the -- 


 Well, Putin is heading down the same road that we've seen authoritarian leaders in Russia and the former Soviet Union head down before, and it's very troubling. You see a leader who wants to re-establish Russia as one of the great powers of the world, potentially a superpower, potentially THE superpower. 

And -- and he is -- his -- the evidence of that, of course, is his elimination
of the free press, his terrorizing and -- and imprisoning of political
prisoners, and -- and unexplained murders that are occurring. It's a -- it's a
-- another repressive regime which he is -- which he is overseeing.

And the question is what you do in a circumstance like that and what it
portends for the future of the world.

What we have today in the world is four major, if you will, strategies at
play.

One, there are the nations with the energy, like Russia. They're trying to use
energy as a way to take over the world.

Then there's China, which is saying, "We're going to use communism plus sort
of a Wild West form of -- of free enterprise. We're going to give nuclear
weapons to -- or nuclear technology to the Iranians. We're going to buy oil
from the Sudanese." You've got China.

Then you've got al Qaeda, which says, "We want to bring everybody down."

And then finally, there's us, the only major power in the world that says, "We
believe in free enterprise and freedom for the individual."

And this great battle is going -- going on right now, and it's essential for
us to strengthen other friends like ourselves and to confront one by one these
other strategies and help turn them towards modernity, so that the world our
kids inherit does not have to know war.

Will there be war? Of course. There will always be terrible events in the
world. But let's do everything in our power to keep war from occurring --


 \-- (and to actually ?) move these voices of moderation and having such strength in our own military that people never question our ability to respond. 


 No. He's a fine man and a man I respect, and I particularly respect his service in the military and his integrity and courage for our nation. 

I do believe that as people over the centuries have considered who ought to
lead our country, they don't look to senators. They look to governors, and
they look to governors because they have the experience of being executive
leaders. They're actually leading something. They're making something happen.
They're running something. They're leading an organization. Senators and
congressmen are fine people, but they're legislators. They sit in committees;
they're committee chairs, and they call that leadership.

In my view, the key leadership of my life was 25 years in the private sector
-- helping build business, turn a business around, start a business
successfully, then going off to the Olympics, helping turn the Olympics
around. You don't do that as a manager; you do that as a leader. We shouldn't
demean the people who are starting up small businesses or middle-sized
business or people who run volunteer organizations. They're leaders.

You can't go out and hire managers to run these things. These people are
leading our economy. They help lift our country.

I think in order to have somebody fix our economy and strengthen it, and it's
our economy that's the root of our strength -- to provide for our military,
for our families, we have to have a strong economy -- you've got to have
somebody who's actually done some work in the private economy, who understands
how it works. (Cross talk, applause.)

Then I went on to become a governor. I went on to become a governor and as a
governor, you're also a leader. You're the commander in chief of your National
Guard. You're in charge of the state police. You're in charge, in my case, of
tens of thousands of employees. You work together with the legislature to get
the job done.

I'm proud of my experience as a leader and I will use that leadership skill,
which has honed by sense of judgment, temperament, wisdom, decision-making
capacity and ability to deliberate on tough issues, to make sure you get them
right, to make sure that we have the right kind of leadership in the White
House.


 You know, I'm sure that there are those who'd say, you know, to be the commander in chief, you have to have served in the military. And one of the two great regrets I have in life is I didn't serve in the military. I'd love to have but I don't believe that you have to have served in the military to be a great commander in chief or to be a great foreign policy expert. 

I think you're going to see in our foreign policy and in the military, we're
going to face challenges not like the challenges of old, where I'd liken it to
playing checkers with the red side and the black side.

It's more like three-dimensional chess. And you're going to have to have
people of unusual capacity in bringing in the perspectives of the entire world
and thinking about how you move your pieces and how you make changes that can
strengthen America's position.

You see, my objective is to keep America the strongest nation on Earth,
economically, militarily, and, if you will, from the spirit of our people. I
believe I can do that by virtue of a lifetime of experience leading, making
decisions.

But, you know, some of our great leaders -- look at Abraham Lincoln, was not a
military expert, but turned out to be one of the best in the history of this
country.


 Absolutely. Ronald Reagan would look at the issues that are being debated right here and say, one, we're going to win in Iraq, and I'm not going to walk out of Iraq until we win in Iraq. 

Ronald Reagan would say lower taxes. Ronald Reagan would say lower spending.

Ronald Reagan would -- is pro-life. He would also say I want to have an
amendment to protect marriage.

Ronald Reagan would say, as I do, that Washington is broken. And like Ronald
Reagan, I'd go to Washington as an outsider -- not owing favors, not lobbyists
on every elbow. I would be able to be the independent outsider that Ronald
Reagan was, and he brought change to Washington.

Ronald Reagan would say, yes, let's drill in ANWR. Ronald Reagan would say, no
way are we going to have amnesty again. Ronald Reagan saw it, it didn't work.
Let's not do it again.

Ronald Reagan would say no to a 50-cent-per-gallon charge on Americans for
energy that the rest of the world doesn't have to pay.

Ronald Reagan would have said absolutely no way to McCain- Feingold.

I would be with Ronald Reagan. And this party, it has a choice, what the heart
and soul of this party is going to be, and it's going to have to be in the
house that Ronald Reagan built.


