 Yes. 


 I think that we have to understand that we are going to be in Iraq or at least in the region for a long time. Our national interests dictate that. We are not going to be removing our troops from the area. We can't, for all the reasons that have been identified here. 

The question is, in what capacity we will be there and what capacity those
troops will be there? Will they be a constabulary force, which I do not
believe they should be? Will they be a supporting force for the Iraqi
government and for the Iraqi forces themselves, which I believe they should
be?

The president is the one, in his state of the war message to the nation, that
said, "I am establishing a benchmark of November," he said, "and by November,
the Iraqi government will be in control of all 18 provinces of Iraq." I
believe that that is a good benchmark to set. I will support him in that
effort, and I will support our troops while they are in the field in every
single way I can. That is my responsibility as a member of Congress, by the
way. It is not to general the war, it is not to micromanage it, it is to
support the troops that are in harm's way.


 Yeah, it's absolutely a problem. And you know, reducing the national debt requires us, of course, to have some sort of fiscal discipline. Now this is amazing, to sit here and listen to people talk about fiscal discipline and then recognize that some of the things that we have done, this Congress has done, and some of the -- and votes that have been cast in this Congress and in the past several Congresses. 

Republicans, we have lot the mantle of fiscal responsibility. It is incredible
to listen to people talk about the fact that we have to, you know reimpose
that. Well, of course we do.

But did they vote for the No Child Left Behind bill, something of course the
federal government has absolutely no involvement with? Did they vote for the
Medicare/prescription drug bill, a $400 billion to some trillion dollars that
we're not sure exactly where that's going to lie? What's the federal
government role there? Did they vote for that? And then if they did, how in
the world can you come back here and say, "We've got to be careful about
spending and get it under control"?

There are a million programs that we operate and that we pay for with the
federal government that are far beyond the bounds of the Constitution. Follow
the Constitution and you'll know what is -- what's necessary. And that's the
defense of the country. That's it for the federal government.


 I do. And of course you can look at the bills that they've sponsored, in this case Senator McCain in particular. He sponsored a bill that -- a little bit ago -- would have given amnesty to everybody who's here illegally. It would have required Mexico to -- required us to actually consult with Mexico as to whether or not we would build the fence along our southern border. 

The issue of immigration is, of course, enormously important to me. And I see
so many conversions around this room tonight on a lot of things, and this is
-- I'm beginning to hint that -- or I mean I get the hint here there's
conversions happening on this issue also; conversions on guns, conversions on
abortion, conversions on immigration. You know, it's beginning to truly sound
like a Baptist tent rival meeting here. And I am glad to see conversions. I'm
glad they happen. But I must tell you, I trust those conversions when they
happen on the road to Damascus and not on the road to Des Moines. (Laughter.)

And this is really the problem that we are -- this is the problem that we're
facing here because this issue of immigration is one of the most serious
public policy issues we face. And if we pursue this path toward amnesty --
(bell rings) -- it's a disaster for the country.


 Okay. First of all, the whole issue of global warming, for every single scientist that tells you it's happening and that it's our fault -- and they'll stack up to here in this reports -- I can stack up another group of reports that say just the opposite. 

I don't believe that -- well, I'll tell you this, I don't know whether or not
we are responsible, we the human race, are responsible for global warming.

It certainly could be happening, it certainly could be a natural phenomenon.
If it's the latter, of course there isn't much we can do about that. If it's
the former, there is something that we can do about it, and I'm all for it,
and that is of course to reduce our dependence on petroleum products. If we do
that, we automatically reduce the carbon emissions that people claim are
causing global warming. And I'm all for doing that, because -- I'll tell you
why. It's a national security issue. It just isn't an issue of fight over the
science of global warming; it's a national security issue for us to move away
from the use of petroleum products when they're coming from countries that
want to kill us.

And although my dear friend Ron here -- I dearly love and really respect, but
I'll tell you, I just have to disagree with you, Ron, about the issue of
whether or not that -- whether Israel existed or didn't, whether or not we
were in the Iraq war or not, they would be trying to kill us because it's a
dictate of their religion, at least a part of it, and we have to defend
ourselves.


 Well, let me just say that it's almost unbelievable to listen to this in a way. We're talking about -- we're talking about it in such a theoretical fashion. You say that -- that nuclear devices have gone off in the United States, more are planned, and we're wondering about whether waterboarding would be a -- a bad thing to do? I'm looking for "Jack Bauer" at that time, let me tell you. (Laughter, applause.) 

And -- and there is -- there is nothing -- if you are talking about -- I mean,
we are the last best hope of Western civilization. And so all of the theories
that go behind our activities subsequent to these nuclear attacks going off in
the United States, they go out the window because when -- when we go under,
Western civilization goes under. So you better take that into account, and you
better do every single thing you can as president of the United States to make
sure, number one, it doesn't happen -- that's right -- but number two, you
better respond in a way that makes them fearful of you because otherwise you
guarantee something like this will happen.


 Hi. I'm Tom Tancredo. I'm a member of Congress, have been for 10 years. Thank you for letting me join you here this evening. 


 I'll tell you this: that if it comes to that point in time that you describe, that the surge - is apparent that it is not working - I did not support it. I hope to God it does work. I hope I'm wrong. I hope we pacify Iraq. 

However, if it is apparent that we cannot, then we have to do and tell the
Iraqis the exact same thing that Benjamin Franklin said when he came out of
the convention in 1787 and somebody said to him, "Dr. Franklin, what have you
given us?" And he said, "A republic, if you can keep it." It is exactly that
time and it is exactly that thing that we have to say to the Iraqi government.
We have given you this. We bought it with our blood and sweat. It is now up to
you to keep it.

And I want the Iraqis to be in fact patrolling Baghdad. If they need vehicles,
you let them have the vehicles. But I want them patrolling their city and
putting their lives at risk.


 Then we move out. 


 Okay. 


 They are incredible and they are disastrous. And that is exactly why I have said what I've said, and that is why I have consistently tried to impress upon the American public the seriousness of this issue. We're not just talking about the number of jobs that we may be losing, or the number of kids that are in our schools and impacting our school system, or the number of people that are abusing our hospital system and taking advantage of the welfare system in this country - we're not just talking about that. We're talking about something that goes to the very heart of this nation - whether or not we will actually survive as a nation. And here's what I mean by that. 

What we're doing here in this immigration battle is testing our willingness to
actually hold together as a nation or split apart into a lot of Balkanized
pieces. We are testing our willingness to actually hold on to something called
the English language, something that is the glue that is supposed to hold us
together as a nation. We are becoming a bilingual nation, and that is not
good. And that is the fearful part of this. It has - the ramifications are
much, much more significant than any that we've been discussing so far.

And so yes, I have said dramatic things. And yes, I am willing to do what is
ever (sic) necessary to try to stop this piece of legislation, and that
includes go after any Republican that votes for it, because the Republicans
can stop this.


 Thank you. Some time ago, 2003 I think it was, I got a call from Karl Rove who told me that because of my criticism of the president, I should never darken the doorstep of the White House. I have been so disappointed in the president in so many ways since his - actually for the last several years, not just the immigration issue, but several other things, including the No Child Left Behind and the massive increase in government that we call prescription drug - Medicare prescription drug, that I'm afraid I would have to tell the president of the United States - I mean as president, I would have to tell George Bush exactly the same thing Karl Rove told me. 


 Yes. 


 Yeah. The - I think that that's absolutely imperative, and I think so because frankly, you've got a conservative model to pick from. I mean, you know, Teddy Roosevelt after all put the stamp on that - the whole issue of conserving the environment, creating the national parks system. There is nothing anti- conservative about doing anything like that. 

And you know what else you can do in order to foster that, you do it through
conservative principles. You make it profitable for people to do exactly that
- to put - to make conservation an issue that is - it hurts people in the
pocketbook, or they can profit by getting involved in conservation. That's one
way the free market really works perfectly. We've seen it happen all over the
world.

We can see and we will put conservation to work - conservation practices to
work in the United States through conservative principles. We have a lock on
that.


 Right. Yeah, exactly. No, I would not advertise in Spanish. Believe me when I tell you this, English - the preservation of the English language is important for us for a lot of reasons, not the least of which is because it is what holds us together. It is the glue that keeps a country together, any country. Bilingual countries don't work, and we should not encourage it. 

And even in the bill that Senator McCain is pushing, he says that he supports
English-only - or official English. Doesn't go on to tell you, that of course
he says that we're going to codify President Clinton's original plan, original
executive order signed that said all papers produced by the government have to
be in various languages. No, it is absolutely wrong. English is the language
of this country, and you know what, we should not be ashamed of that. It's a
good thing and it holds us all together regardless of where we come from -


 \- regardless of our backgrounds, our histories, it doesn't matter. We need that thing to hold us together. 


 The biggest problem, I think, in this administration has been the fact that he ran - the president ran as a conservative and governed as a liberal. 

That is what has really been the basis, I think, of the distrust that has
developed among the Republican base. It's well-founded. We have to do
something about that.


 It means, number one, cut from the past. If you come here as an immigrant, great. Welcome. If you come here legally, welcome. It means you cut your ties with the past, familial - especially political ties with the country from which you came. 

But let's be serious about this, you guys. We talk about all the immigration
reform we want, and what it's got to get down to is this: Are we ready for a
timeout? Are we actually ready to say, "Enough is enough"? We have to stop all
legal immigration except for the - for people coming into this country as
family members, immediate family members, and/or refugees. Are we willing to
actually say that and say enough - is it - we have got to actually begin the
process of assimilating people who have come in this great wave of
immigration. The process of assimilation is not going on.

And how long? How long will it take us for that - for us to catch up with the
millions of people who have come here, both legally and illegally, and
assimilate them? I'll tell you this. It'll take this long: until we no longer
have to press 1 for English and 2 for any other language. (Applause.)


 You know, I listen to my colleagues up here talk about this, and I ask -- and I listen to the questions that are finally being asked about this and the answers that are finally being given on this issue. It happens to be one of the most serious domestic problems that we face in America. And for of course how many months did my colleagues up here stay silent or were on the other side of it? 

You wonder why people in the United States are cynical about politics and
politicians. It could be -- it just could be that when the wind is blowing in
one direction, and that is, you know, we're not going to say anything about
illegal immigration, we will be silent on the issue. But when it sounds like
the people are getting uptight about this and we can make hay out of it, we're
all going to be the strongest supporters of secure borders that you ever saw
in your life.

Well, I'll tell you, I'd like to see more than rhetoric.

I wish that I could feel in their hearts that that's exactly where they were
going. And it's got nothing to do with disliking people who are coming into
this country; it's got everything to do with the rule of law. Does anybody
understand that? (Cheers, applause.)


 Well, I hope and pray that, of course, the surge works. I hope, and in fact I believe, there are indications that certain aspects of it are. I don't doubt that for a moment, and I want to commend General Petraeus and I want to commend every single person serving in the theater. 

But let me get back to a central point here, and that is why we're there and,
in fact, with whom we are at war. The war is not actually in Iraq; the war is
with radical Islam. That's who we are at war with -- (applause) -- and we have
to understand it. Iraq is a battlefield in that war.

And we -- in order for us to be successful there, a number of things are going
to have to happen, and I think part -- when we talk about the disengagement,
that is exactly what I believe has to happen.

We have to disengage as the police force in Iraq but we cannot leave the
country. We cannot leave, because this is not a war that will end with our
departure. I wish that were the case. Wouldn't that be wonderful if that's all
it would take, for us to say we'll withdraw all of our troops and we will
never have another thing to worry about?

But we were not attacked because we had troops in Saudi Arabia. I don't
believe it. We were attacked because radical Islam wants to destroy the United
States of America and any part of this world that they do not agree with.
(Cheers, applause.)


 Torture -- I mean, we get into this debate all the time, and as the -- as to what exactly is the definition of torture. And I'm telling you that we will -- we need to do -- remember, the question that I was originally asked that elicited the response that you've mentioned was, what do we do in the -- in the response to a nuclear -- or the fact that a nuclear device or some bombs have gone off in the United States; we know that there are -- we have captured people who have information that could lead us to the next one that's going to go off; and it's the big one? That was the question that I responded to. 

And I told you yes, I would do -- certainly waterboard -- I don't believe that
that is, quote, "torture." I would do what is necessary to protect this
country. That is the ultimate responsibility of the president of the United
States. All of the other things that we do, all of the other things, all of
the other powers vested in him are -- pale in comparison to its -- his
responsibility to keep these -- the people of this country safe. And that is
ultimate.

And yes, I would go to great lengths to keep this country safe. (Applause.)


 I'm sorry? 


 Well, the scenario you have laid out is not one of course that leaves you many options, leaves the president of the United States of anybody else many options. You have to actually look at -- the use, I think -- one of the most important things we can do with Iran is to look at the Iranian people themselves to the extent that we can. There are -- there is a great deal of dissent inside Iran, and I agree. We certainly don't immediately, you know, use the button. We immediately don't go to war. 

But I also tell you that we cannot back way from the situation, and we cannot
be threatened in that way. If it takes it, if it takes it, action must be -- I
mean, if it's required, action has to be taken, and a president has to do
that. We can no longer -- I -- I -- you know, one of the things that has
really bothered me during this whole discussion is the fact that we are -- we
continue to be politically correct when we face these situations.

Political correctness is going to get us all killed. (Applause.) It is
absolutely the thing we have to fear. And just this -- and if I could for just
a minute, listen. It is already the thing that has gotten us killed in other
places. We will -- I will never however go to war, under any circumstances, by
putting men and women of the armed forces in places of danger with their hands
tied behind them with rules of engagement that they cannot live by.


 That's never going to happen. (Cheers, applause.) 


 Thank you, Tavis. I am here likewise because I was asked and because I made a commitment on your show. I must admit to you that it is pleasurable and a little bit different to be in this kind of an environment with my colleagues who are here because the last time I was at an event of this nature, it was the NAACP convention and I was the only Republican that showed up. 

So I am glad that my colleagues have joined me on the stage tonight.

And I am especially glad to be here to be able to talk about something that
was mentioned during the original introduction, something you said, I believe,
Tavis, when you talked about -- we're here to talk about the promise of
America.

And that is what drives me, that's -- I think, probably all of my colleagues
up here. That is exactly why we can get up, do the next event, go get on the
plane, do the next event. It is because the promise of America is something
that we all have to actually share in, and we have to explain to everybody
that's listening to us how we would fulfill that, what would we do for that
promise of America -- to every single person in this room and for every person
listening on the radio and television tonight.


 So, certainly, that's why I am here to do so. 


 Thank you. 

First of all, I do believe that there are a number of Republican presidents
who have done a great deal for Black Americans, because they've done something
for all Americans.

Ronald Reagan, from my point of view, did something for every single American
by increasing individual liberty.

You know, it is, I think, destructive to only talk about the politics of race,
and suggest that all of the actions taken, or all of the specific programs
that we identify and talk about tonight should be focused on race.

It really does not do a service, I think, to us as Americans and again, that
promise to America. And I'll tell you this, one of the things that I will do
as president of the United States, to increase the economic opportunities for
every American, especially people in the lower economic rung of the ladder in
America, is to reduce the flow of illegal immigration into this country, which
depresses wage rates for the lowest-income earners in this country.

And it's got to be dealt with. It's got to be dealt with forcefully. And I
tell you, yes, Black America, brown America, white America, all will be
enhanced by actually enforcing our laws.


 OK, I just cannot agree with this race-baiting kind of comments about the reason why we have these problems. 

My friends, I'll tell you that I believe, with all my heart -- look, why was
it that in the '50s, in the '40s, and actually leading up into the early '60s,
the ability for Blacks in the United States to improve themselves economically
was working? They were moving up the ladder.

Families were in tact -- in better shape, by the way, than most white families
of that same period of time. What happened? Two things have happened to -- I
believe -- to devastate the Black community when it comes to economic
opportunity.

One, the welfare state; it began to pay people to not be in the home.

And when that happened, what we saw is a decline in wage rates.

And two, of course, is the importation of millions upon millions of low-income
workers that depress the wage rates for the lowest income among us. Those two
things are responsible, and it's got nothing to do with race.


 Twelve million to 20 million people in this country illegally. Then that is the ultimate question, is: What do we do about that situation today, because we can all rave about how we're going to secure the borders -- which I'm glad to hear, by the way, these newfound positions with regard to the borders and security? 

Great. Happy they're there.

But you're right, what are the -- the real issue is: What do we do about the
people here? And I will tell you, when you use phrases like "rounding them
up," I mean, it -- those are -- they are improperly used in this respect.
Because we're not talking about rounding people up.

If you, in fact, simply enforce the law -- I know that's a scary topic
sometimes and a controversial attitude to take -- but enforcing the law,
especially against hiring people who are here illegally, you will see people
returning home, voluntarily.

It's happening today in states all over this nation. That's exactly the key to
this. You do not have to round people up. You simply have to enforce the law.


 I believe that it was mentioned earlier, and I certainly agree with the fact that first of all, there are far too many criminal statutes at the federal level. The Constitution establishes the roles for the federal government and the state government, and we have taken on far too many things at the federal level, especially drugs laws -- mandating certain penalties and that sort of thing. 

I do not believe that that is the responsibility of the federal government.
That should be at the state level, and I would certainly not support.

And as a way of reform, by the way, I would move the federal government out of
that whole business.

Now, let me say one thing other -- that, I think, that has to be mentioned
here. When you talk about the crime rate, so much of this is connected to
another huge problem, and that you cannot take apart and you cannot look at
just in segments.

And that is this. The family -- what is happening to the Black family in
America today and what has been happening for the last 40 years is a disgrace.
It is because, of course -- as I said earlier, the welfare state has helped
create this.

But you know what? The welfare state cannot be the -- it can be the
breadwinner, but it cannot...


 ... it cannot give you morals, values or discipline. And that's what it takes... 


 ... in America today. 


 Well, let's first take the issue that you mentioned with regard to the District of Columbia. It is not a state and, therefore, not entitled to representation as a state. 

If, in fact, you want -- if it becomes the desire of the country to have that
kind of representation, then the district -- then it should be split up, and
the portion that was ceded to the federal government by Virginia should go
back to Virginia, the portion that was ceded by Maryland should go back to
Maryland. Then they would be represented by states. It would work.

Also, with regard to voting opportunities and the use of a photo ID -- let me
tell you that it is really not that difficult to obtain. And I don't think
that we're asking too much of people when they're doing something that is one
of the most sacred duties of anybody in this society, to actually show that
they are the person who they say they are. I don't think that's asking too
much.

And I think you can get a photo ID and they don't even have to -- you don't
even need a driver's license. You can get a photo ID, a state ID, you can do
it relatively easily.


 The important thing, the most important thing to remember about your health care is it's your health care. You have a personal responsibility here, every single person does, to do everything they can to stay healthy. 

Most of the things that happen to us are lifestyle problems, and, really, I
mean, there are things that we do to ourselves that cause us to then have to
access the health care industry.

We have to first look to ourselves, individually. Again, it's kind of a scary
thing again to say, but, you know, individual responsibility does work, also
in health care.

And, yes, I believe, by the way, in the expansion of health savings accounts
because it does put you in the connection -- it's you and you're the consumer
and the doctor, and there's nobody in between, and that's good.

Also believe, by the way, that you should be able to get your drugs from any
place that, in fact, it's cheaper to get drugs. If it's cheaper to get drugs
in Canada, get drugs from Canada -- it's OK with me. We shouldn't be blocking
that.

Again, individual freedom -- expand individual freedom and take some
individual responsibility for your own health care.


 What's the constitutional responsibility of the Congress when it comes to war? 

It is, one, declare it; two, fund it; or three, not fund it. That's it.

You know what, when you talk about, Juan, you talk about the number of bills
that we have killed because of attempts to, sort of, end this thing?

Well, every one of them has inside of them all these provisions about how have
to fight the war, how many people can be dispatched at any particular point in
time and who they can fight.

I will tell you this, that the founders of this country knew very well that --
what would happen to us if we ended up with 535 generals in the Congress of
the United States. And that is, you lose wars.

You need a commander in chief.

And then the Congress has every right -- and you know what? It has every right
to be involved in it. It has every right to talk about this and to condemn it
if you don't agree with it.

But you know what? It ends up with this. If you don't want it, don't fund it.
But you cannot micromanage it from the Congress of the United States.


 First trip I ever took -- the very first trip I ever took as a congressman of the United States was to Sudan. I came back, worked two years to pass the Sudan Peace Act. 

I believe we do have a moral responsibility to act. It is not to send troops,
believe me. I do not believe we need boots on the ground in Sudan or in Darfur
to deal with this issue.

But you know what we could do?

We could see whether the United Nations is worth its salt and force them into
participating in this issue and getting that -- and in getting that solved.


 It is, in fact, a state issue, almost entirely. The restrictions that we talked about with regard to the federal government and whether or not we should have a death penalty, I will tell you, I would absolutely support the continuation of a death penalty, especially for crimes like treason. 

I mean, we really have to consider the possibility that there is an
appropriate penalty for a crime of that nature. It is the death penalty.


 I think it's a racist thing to say, to even suggest that the only way that a Black child can learn is sitting next to a white child or any other kind of child. 

It can happen. We can teach children of all colors and we've proved it. We can
do it by giving choice -- choice to parents, choice to pick from a wide array
of educational opportunities, and then kids go to those schools. They're all
over the country now. There are charter schools and voucher systems. That's
what will give that integration -- make it a natural phenomena and it will
make kids much, much better in terms of their ability to succeed.


 Absolutely. I'll take the oath. The fact is this, that when we talk about spending cuts, which everybody, I think, on this stage, adheres to and certainly pays lip service to, we have to think about what exactly it is that pushes spending at the federal level, and believe it or not, it isn't even earmarks. 

I'm all for dumping them. It's okay with me. But don't think for a moment that
if we did it tomorrow, all of a sudden, we'd have a balanced budget. Of
course, we would not, because the thing that pushes spending at the federal
level is mandatory spending. It's two things really -- Medicare, Social
Security.

Now, you can cut the entire budget, the discretionary budget. You could cut
the whole thing out and only come close -- well, you'd cut the deficit pretty
significantly. But frankly you really want to do without funding for the armed
services? And that's exactly what we're talking about in the discretionary
side. It's about $700 billion out of a three-point trillion-dollar budget.

If you want to control federal spending, you must look at Social Security and
Medicare, and it's a dicey game. I know the president tried. I give him credit
for at least getting out there, touching that third rail, getting burned by
it. He did, jumped back immediately.

But the reality is this: If you don't do it, forget about all this talk about
reducing federal spending. It's not going to happen. You better address Social
Security. You better come up with a way to allow for private Social Security
accounts, structurally fix both of those things, or forget the idea of ending
deficit spending.


 Yeah, let me answer that. You know, Senator Thompson, there is one place where the federal government has a role in manufacturing, and that's ensuring that everybody's playing by the rules. 

Now, when Communist China devalues their currency by 40 percent, they undercut
American products around the world. They undercut them so low that we can't
even pay for the cost of materials and meet their prices. Now, that has put
1.8 million working Americans out of work, and that job, the job of enforcing
those rules, is the president's job. That's what I intend to do.


 John, I just want to quickly respond. I certainly can agree with the senator on one thing, that the people of this country believe that the government is broken and hasn't fixed their problems to a large extent because of the senator's efforts in support of illegal immigration. That's one reason why they're concerned, and that's -- you're absolutely right, the government hasn't fixed the problem. And for every single illegal immigrant family in this country, it costs 20,000 -- it costs us $20,000; $20,000 in infrastructural costs. They pay about 10,000 in taxes. You really want to do something about -- to restore the people's faith in government? Do something about illegal immigration, don't just talk about it. (Applause.) 

Okay, Gerry.


 No, if -- I'll tell you. If Dubai wanted to buy Wal-Mart, I might think about it. But if they wanted to buy something else that would have, in this case, certainly more of an impact on our national security interests, I'd say, no, we'd have to think about that in a totally different way. 

It is exactly the same with regard to China. There are things that we should
have thought of in the first place when we passed the PNTR, which I voted
against, along with Duncan Hunter. And I absolutely agree that trade is a
great idea in many respects. But when you trade with people who are your
potential enemy, and they have shown a willingness to use that economic
opportunity to actually increase their threats to the United States, I'm not
for trading with them at all.


 You bet. I would agree to exploration off the coasts. I mean, it's -- how fair is it today that Louisiana is producing all the oil that California and other countries (sic) are consuming, and they refuse to allow the exploration of oil of their coasts? I'd say if you don't -- if you won't allow it, you can't use it -- the stuff that we're getting from Louisiana. (Laughter.) 

Now, the other thing is this -- when we talk about deficits, our trade
deficits, it's -- by the way, it's not importing, you know, toys from China
that causes it. The biggest chunk of our trade deficit is due to one thing and
one thing only -- it's oil. That's where all the dollars flow. And where do
they flow? To countries that want to kill us. So, yeah, you better drill every
place you can here, and you better figure out every way to reduce your
dependency on foreign oil.


 You want to raise wage rates in the United States. You want to reduce taxes in the United States. You want to encourage people to think about us as doing the right thing as Republicans do this -- stop illegal immigration into this country. We'll do all of these -- those things. And I'll tell you something else we need to do. I have never voted with Republicans more than I have since we've been in the minority. It's incredible. We're fighting Democrats now tooth and nail on every single thing, SCHIP -- great. You know what? Standing on principle is a good idea; too bad we didn't do it when we were in the majority. 

Let's think about this now. Stop pandering. Stop pandering to all of these
special interest groups. Do what's right regardless of whether or not people
all agree with you when you take -- you know, this kind of put your finger in
the wind. Do what you believe in. Stop pandering, they'll believe in us.
(Applause.)


 Sam, I don't -- your mom, if she was a postal worker, believe me, she didn't need a union on top of Civil Service. (Laughter.) The fact is that -- 


 I'm sure she's a sweetheart. 


 I'm sure she's a sweetheart, but she doesn't -- she didn't need -- 


 \-- both, I'll guarantee you. 

Really one of the problems is that we do allow civil servants to also have
union benefits, and believe me, that becomes a conflict.

The creative conflict that occurs between unions and management is usually a
good thing. When unions, I think, get off track is when they start to
influence public policy, especially with regard to -- need I say it -- illegal
immigration -- (laughter) -- allowing illegal immigration into the country,
because they want to fill up their ranks.


 Because they want to fill up their ranks. That's why they can be problematic. 


 You know, I've said I don't know how many times that I am absolutely tired and sick and tired of being forced to go to the polls and say I'm going to make this choice between the lesser of two evils. I really don't intend to do that again. 

I am hoping, of course, that whoever we nominate will be the principal flag
carrier for the Republican Party, but if that is not the case, no, then I will
not.




 There are a number of things, of course, with regard to Iraq that I think we have found some common ground on, but the reality is this: that it is absolutely true I think that we are in a war with radical Islam. That is the war. A battle is being fought in Iraq. Now, can we win the military battle on the ground? Yes, we can. Our guys are the best in the world, and the people that are serving there cannot be faulted in any way. One of the things, however, that I must say I am concerned about are the rules of engagement, that apparently are restricting the ability of our people to do their job and to protect themselves. No one should ever go into harm's way, no president should ever send anyone in this military into harm's way and keep one arm tied behind them. These rules of engagement have got to be reviewed, and no president should ever pursue them in this wan, or let people go into battle and be actually at risk. 


 I unveiled a statue for a guy by the name of Danny Dietz in my district, a Navy SEAL. Danny Dietz is dead because the rules of engagement did not allow them to do what they needed to do over there. That is unacceptable. In the broader picture, of course, you are absolutely right. We have to do something about the fact that there is no political or economic solution being developed by the Iraqis. And you have to push them into it. America cannot be the police force in Iraq. It cannot remove itself entirely from Iraq, but Iraq has got to take control of Iraq. 


 Let me suggest—let me suggest we think about something in the area of health care that perhaps is unique, different and scary to some people, but that is this: The government—it's not the responsibility of the federal government to provide womb-to-tomb health care for America. 

(APPLAUSE) And so, we constantly debate on exactly what way we want to push
government control of this issue, but in every way we're doing it, it's
unhealthy. It is unhealthy to have a government health-care plan in America.
There are some things we can do, absolutely. The expansion of health savings
accounts that increases individual responsibly. The allowing for people to
actually take—the reimportation of prescription drugs. And not only that, but
let's do something about the 12 million to 20 million illegal aliens in this
country that are taking a large part of our health-care dollars.

(APPLAUSE)


 You bet I did. 


 Yes, the State Department—boy, when they start complaining about things I say, I feel a lot better about the things I say, I'll tell you right now. 

(LAUGHTER)

(APPLAUSE) My task as president of the United States is primarily to do one
thing—by the way, not to make sure everybody has health care or everybody's
child is educated—my task is to do one thing: to protect and defend this
country. And that means to deter—and I want to underline "deter"—any kind of
aggression, especially the type we are threatened with by Al Qaida, which is
nuclear attack. I read the national intelligence estimate. I see what they are
planning. And I'm telling you right now that anybody that would suggest that
we should take anything like this off the table in order to deter that kind of
event in the United States isn't fit to be president of the United States.

(APPLAUSE)


 After we take a hit?


 The reason why we absolutely need to go to something like a fair tax—and I am a co-sponsor. And by the way, if you don't understand how it would work, I would suggest to you that you read Neil Boortz's book and John Linder's. It's a perfect explanation of how it works. 


 Here's—well, then you should know how it works. 


 The fact is that—but the most important reason, the most important reason to move from an income tax to something like a fair tax—to specifically a fair tax, is because an income tax is designed to manipulate behavior. 


 It gives the government the power to manipulate your behavior. "I reward you for the things I want you to do by giving you a tax cut. I penalize you for the things I don't want you to do by raising your taxes." That is too much power for the federal government. It is always going to be an overreach of power. 

(APPLAUSE)


 I have no doubt of what the greatest mistake in my life has been. And that is that it took me probably 30 years before I realized that Jesus Christ is my personal savior. 


 Hope—hope in America itself, remembering that we have made a number of mistakes that have turned our friends against us, have encouraged our enemies. I believe that—with all my heart, that it is going to take a leader committed to the ideas of Western civilization, to the rhetorical—to speaking out about the values of Western civilization. We can no longer afford political correctness. We have to tell people that there is something good—not just good, but great—about who we are. That will restore America's faith in itself and the world's faith in America. 


 Well, you know, one thing, by being a bookend to every one of these debates you get a chance to listen... 

(APPLAUSE)

... for a long time to everybody else talk about their positions on issues.

And every single person on this stage, certainly everyone of my colleagues, I
believe, bring something very unique, very special, and certainly enormous
capabilities to this whole debate and to the office that they are seeking.


 But I must tell you, they also bring differences. And those -- it is not, I think, a sin to discuss them. I don't believe it should be something that we hold back on when we talk to the American people about what it is that actually distinguishes us. 

And, yes, I do think that there are organizations that should be looked at
that actually rate people for their conservative history.

And the American Taxpayers Union, for one, gives me the highest rating; the
American Conservative Union, highest rating of anybody running for president
of the United States; an A rating from the National Right to Life; an A rating
from every organization -- every conservative organization that gives ratings
to those of us who are here on this stage.

Now, those are objective. You know, there's somebody else that looks at us and
says: How conservative are these people really? And what we do notice is that
in a primary everybody in the Republican Party, everybody runs to the right.


 But, as time goes on, they all move to the left. And that's why people are so cynical about this process. 

(APPLAUSE)


 One of the most interesting parts of this debate about health care is the fact that we continually talk about the federal government's role in it. 

We should actually be debating that specific point, not what kind of
government program. You know, Michael Moore went to Cuba not too long ago, and
wrote this documentary about the greatness of the system, how wonderful it was
to be in Cuba and have a socialized medical system.

You notice, however, that Michael Moore came back to the United States.

(LAUGHTER)

(APPLAUSE)

Now, there's a reason that he did that, of course. It's because we have the
best system in the world. And why? It's because we do rely more on individuals
than not.


 Really and truly, it's a fascinating thing to think about this, that we have moved all the way to the point of simply debating what kind of federal plan we might have rather than debating what's the constitutional right of the federal government to get involved in this particular issue. That's a challenge I think we all have to accept. 

(APPLAUSE)

Now, if there's a federal role, I completely accept the idea of giving people
the greater opportunity -- individual opportunity to use health savings
accounts. Why? Because that takes individuals. They become the consumer in the
marketplace dealing directly with the provider.

That's called a marketplace. That will drive down the costs. Get the federal
government -- don't even talk about our responsibilities, because they always
-- gives people the option to think that there is -- naturally the federal
government should be involved. It shouldn't.

(APPLAUSE)


 And that is exactly right. It is because the present leadership of the House of Representatives brought up this bill, agreed to bring up a bill, a resolution, that we knew would in fact, if they did that, would cause Turkey to do exactly what they did. 

Now, that goes to show you that pandering for votes, which was what this was
partly based upon, and a complete ignorance of the foreign policy implications
of doing such a thing, are the reasons why we are here now.

And we should take away from this some very important lessons, not the least
of which is that Nancy Pelosi is not a very good speaker of the House, and she
is an even lousier secretary of state.

(LAUGHTER) (APPLAUSE)


 Yes.

Well, I tell you, this has been wonderful. Senator McCain may not be happy
with the spirit of this debate. For a guy who usually stands on the bookend
here, aside, and just listens all the time, that's kind of frustrating, you
know, in other debates. I have to tell you, so far, it's been wonderful.

(Laughter)

Because all I've heard is people trying to out-Tancredo Tancredo.

It is great. I am so happy to hear it. It is a wonderful thing. It's a good
message, yes. We want to secure the borders.


 Let me go ahead and answer that next question.


 OK, the gist of the question, as I understand it, is, what I'm going to do stop guest workers from coming in here?


 I'm sorry. I could not hear that. I'm sorry. Well, I'll tell you, I'm not going to aid any more immigration into this country, because in fact, immigration...

(Applause)

... massive immigration into the country, massive immigration, both legal and
illegal, does a couple of things.

One of it is, makes it difficult for us to assimilate. The other thing is that
it does take jobs.

I reject the idea -- I reject the idea, categorically, that there are jobs
that, quote, "No American will take." I reject it.

(Applause)

Now, what they will do...

(Applause)

... what you can say -- what you absolutely can say to these people is that
there are no -- there are some jobs Americans won't take for what I can get
any illegal immigrant to do that job for. Yes, that's true.

But am I going to feel sorry if a business has to increase its wages in order
for somebody in this country to make a good living? No, I don't feel sorry
about that and I won't apologize for it for a moment. And there are plenty of
Americans who will do those jobs.

(Applause)


 Yes, I can. I have the highest rating, by the way, from the American Conservative Union of anybody on this stage, and yes to Grover because he knows I have the highest rating from the Americans for Tax Reform.

(Applause)


 Thank you very much, Grover. Appreciate it.


 This issue of immigration is one of the most serious public policy issues we face.


 We have got to actually begin the process of assimilating people.


 We are obfuscating and using words like: Well, I am not for amnesty, but I am for letting them stay.


 The Republicans can stop this.

(End videotape)

(Applause)


 It is illegal to import that kind of thing. The problem is, of course, no one really pays a lot of attention to a lot of our laws, with regard to immigration of both people and, now in this case, of course, items, goods and services.

I voted against permanent normalized trade relations with China -- this is one
reason why. It wasn't -- that was never devised simply to be a place for us to
sell our products; it was devised to be a place where we could get cheap labor
to then import products to the United States.

So, one of the things you'd have to do, and I certainly would intend to do, is
to change our trade arrangement entirely -- with China, by the way, in
particular, but with other countries, as well, that violate those agreements.


 The question is: What would Jesus do? Well, I'll tell you this. I would pray to him for the wisdom and the courage to do the right thing. And I believe that with prayer, he would give it to me.

And I believe that justice was done in the situations that the governor has
explained. And, as I say, I look to him for guidance in all those kinds of
situations.


 I wish that we lived in the world that Ron is describing -- I wish that we lived in a world where we did not have to worry. By simply removing our forces, we would be safe.

Unfortunately, Ron, honest to God, I don't believe that that is the case. We
are living in a world where we are threatened. It is radical Islam.

(Applause)

It is -- the ideology, the political and religious ideology of radical Islam
is a threat to America, and it would be a threat to America if we never had a
single person serving anywhere outside this country.


 The question is a serious one and it deserves a serious answer, and that is this: Look, we've been -- how many times up here, how many questions have dealt with the issue of deficit spending, the debt out of control? And yet, we have somebody saying, "But would you spend more money on going to Mars?"

And the suggestion that we need to spend more money on space exploration. This
is it, folks. That's why we have such incredible problems with our debt,
because everybody's trying to be everything to all people.

We can't afford some things, and by the way, going to Mars is one of them.


 The reason why it becomes a national security problem is because the bulk of our imbalance of trade is a result of our importation of oil from countries that are not our friends. That's really where it rests. Most of the rest of the stuff we bring in doesn't constitute that kind of threat to the United States, but when we are supplying funds, supplying the funds for the people in other countries that have an intent, a malicious intent in regard to the United States, it's a national security issue. So, of course, energy independence is one huge step in the direction of trying to alleviate that problem.


 I would say there is a way – a very clear way to actually establish what the government needs to do in order to reduce the costs that it incurs and to do what is right, and that is called follow the Constitution of this country. The Constitution is a limiting document. It tells the federal government what it can and cannot do. Today we do far too many things that exceed the constitutional bounds that are placed there. We have a responsibility. It is to protect and defend this country. Concentrate on that. Concentrate on doing what's right and what the Constitution itself gives us the responsibility for, and the rest of that stuff becomes extraneous. And honestly, if you think about it, if you ask America what would you do, what would you sacrifice, the one thing I would say is this: don't ask the government for womb to tomb protection for your life, to build a bubble around you because all of that will cost a humongous amount of money, but we will respond to you, politician will do it because they want the votes. Don't ask, and I guarantee you may administration will remain inside the bounds of the Constitution.


 Everyone that is presently paying tax can make a case that they're paying too much. The reality is, of course, you need a different system entirely. We do need to move away from this arcane – a system that taxes productivity, which is what we do, to a system that allows for a fair tax. I believe in that. 


 NAFTA has been a disaster for a lot of places and especially Mexico. Southern Mexico, it was a disaster. It destroyed the entire agricultural economy. Guess what happened. They all came north. If NAFTA had worked so well, as everybody on this stage appears to think it did, why would we still have so much pressure on our southern border from people trying to escape from a country that does not provide them with the economic opportunities that NAFTA promised? What, of course, is also engrained in this whole discussion is the lack of sovereignty, the fact that our borders are meaningless, the fact that Mexican trucks can come across without – essentially without being checked. These are the problems with NAFTA, and they have to be unwound.


 No, I don't believe in mandates. I believe the market is the best determinant of exactly how these problems should be addressed. I do not mind and I would not be opposed to research and development, but the idea that the government knows the right amount somehow, some way, some brilliant analyst, usually some politician who hasn't the brightest idea of the issue, will make a decision about what is the right amount of mandate to impose on the rest of the country. And you know what? It never works out right. Let the market – I trust the market more than I do the government.


 We have had 45 years of unlimited immigration, both legal and illegal, into this country. That is a problem, unlimited massive immigration is a problem. But when it happens commensurately without the same amount of assimilation, it becomes a catastrophe. It will become what Teddy Roosevelt warned of when he said you can have immigration, but if it happens without assimilation, all you end up with is not a nation, but a polyglot boarding house. Some of my friends on the stage, both governors and senators, say we should trust their judgment. Well, their judgment is what got us into this problem, so we need to trust somebody else to get us out.


 I had the opportunity to serve under Ronald Reagan as the regional director for the U.S. Department of Education. Our task was to try to narrow it down because we knew we couldn't legislatively get rid of it, although we wanted to. So I went – in my region we knew we went from about 222 people. It took us about four or five years to get down to about 60 people. I used to always say we've gotten rid of 80% of the people in this department, has anybody been able to tell the difference? Do you know what? Not a single soul said they had. If we had gone to zero, you'd never know the difference. That's because we don't need the department. It's an encumbrance on our attempt to actually teach children in this country. As is the federal government and its intervention and rules. But I don't think, Governor, with all due respect, you can't say on one hand you're against having government intervention and on the other hand tell us you want music and art and everything else in the school. That's not the job of a president. It is the job of a governor. That's what you should run for if you want to dictate curriculum.


 The first five minutes after taking office, I would free Ramos and Compean. That's for sure. The second thing I would do is to make sure that we begin the process of securing those borders and enforcing the law inside the United States against hiring people who are here illegally. Then I would use that bully pulpit that the Governor talked about – and he's absolutely accurate in terms of the importance of it for a president of the United States – for this reason: to explain that it is, in fact, a war is not going on in Iraq. That's a battle. We are fighting a war against radical Islam. It is a threat to our existence as a nation, it's a threat to western civilization. It will take someone who's willing to say that and lead western civilization in this clash.


 There are two sides to your human component, you know? One is the God-filled side. One is the human side. And there are things that feed either side, you know? And whichever you feed the most becomes the dominant side. And so you have to kind of concentrate on feeding the food side, or else you will lose control over it.


 Because of the issue, of course, as I mentioned earlier, is just a battle going on in Iraq. The major battle is, of course, this clash of civilizations. I believe that the whole idea and the whole debate can be narrowed to a relatively small areas on a Web site or any place else, and that is this: we can not leave Iraq. We are committed there and will be for a long time. And I don't care who's elected president, that's the reality of the situation. We can, however, stop, in fact, being the police force in Iraq. And we are doing that. We are moving in exactly the direction that my Web site, the statement anticipates. What more do I have to say? We're getting it done.


 Well, it all sounds good, but you asked what we would do – what somebody else we think should do in terms of a resolution. I have to say it because you're leading the pack, now, and congratulations to you, Governor, but I have to ask you – no, no, no, I'm pointing right over there …

(Laughter)


 Just a minute. Laughter does not count. I have to ask him a question –


 And the question is how are you going to convince America that you, in fact, changed your mind on the issue of immigration from when you were governor. That's all I want to know.


