 I am. The Bible says we shall be and must be repairers of the breach. And a breach has occurred. We have to acknowledge that. It's a breach that has resulted in inequality in opportunities for education, for healthcare, for housing, for employment. And so, we must be mindful of that. But it's also a breach that has affected a lot of poor whites as well. We need to have a country which recognizes that there is an inequality of opportunity and a president who's ready to challenge the interest groups -- be they insurance companies or mortgage companies or defense contractors who are taking the money away from the people who need it. 


 Yes, I am for repairing the breach. Yes, I am for reparations. 


 Mary and Jen, the answer to your question is yes. And let me tell you why. 

(APPLAUSE)

Because if our Constitution really means what it says, that all are created
equal, if it really means what it says, that there should be equality of
opportunity before the law, then our brothers and sisters who happen to be
gay, lesbian, bisexual or transgendered should have the same rights accorded
to them as anyone else, and that includes the ability to have a civil marriage
ceremony. Yes, I support you. And welcome to a better and a new America under
a President Kucinich administration.

(APPLAUSE)


 If you're not going to answer the question, I'm going to answer the mother that troop -- question. 

The answer to your question, ma'am, is: Yes, it is politics. The Democrats
have failed the American people. When we took over in January, the American
people didn't expect us to give them a Democratic version of the war. They
expected us to act quickly to end the war.

And here's how we can do it. It doesn't take legislation. That's a phony
excuse to say that you don't have the votes. We appropriated $97 billion a
month ago. We should tell President Bush, no more funds for the war, use that
money to bring the troops home, use it to bring the troops home.

(APPLAUSE)

And, Anderson, right, now if people want to send that message to Congress...


 ... they can text "Peace," 73223. 


 The underlying assumption here is that we're going to be in Iraq until the next president takes office, and I reject that totally. People can send a message to Congress right now -- and this is in a convention of this appearance -- they can text peace, and text 73223, text peace. Send a message to Congress right now, you want out. 

I introduced a plan four years ago, Anderson, that was a full plan to remove
our troops. I'm the only one on this stage -- excuse me -- who not only voted
against this war, but voted against funding the war.

(APPLAUSE)

It is not credible to say you oppose the war from the start when you voted to
fund it 100 percent of the time, 70 percent, 5 percent of the time. Let's get
real about this war. Let's get those troops home and let's take a stand and do
it now. Send a message to Congress now.


 We cannot wait until the next president takes office. 

(APPLAUSE)


 My daughter, Jackie, went to the Columbus public schools and got a great education. And I want to make sure that that commitment that sent her to public school is a commitment that will cause all American children to be able to go to great public schools. 

(APPLAUSE)


 Well, we have to understand the connection between global warring and global warming. Because when we start talking about wars for oil, we're essentially keeping the same approach to energy. 

(APPLAUSE)

So I'm saying we need to move away from reliance on oil and coal and toward
reliance on wind and solar.


 Anderson, that's the basis of my WGA, Works Green Administration, where we take an entirely new approach to organize the entire country around sustainability, around conservation. We don't have to have our snowmen melting, and the planet shouldn't be melting either. 


 No. And I think that the reason is that if you support, for example, in Iraq, if you say that Iraq should privatize its oil for the U.S. oil companies, then what you're doing is you're continuing a commitment to use more oil. If you believe that all options should be put on the table with respect to Iran, that's about oil. 

So we need to move away from reliance on oil...


 ... and that's really connected to our defense policy, and I'm the one who gets the connection. 


 You can vote now to end the war in Iraq. Text Peace, 73223. Text peace now to send a message to the White House and to the Democratic Congress that now's the time to end the war. Text Peace, 73223. Make your vote count and your voice be heard. Text Peace, 73223, to move this country away from war as an instrument of policy, and to achieve strength through peace. Text Peace. 

This is Dennis Kucinich, and I authorized this message.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

(APPLAUSE)

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)


 Anderson, I live in the same house I purchased in 1971 for $22,500. I think we need to increase the minimum wage and so all my neighbors can get an increase in their wages. 


 I would. 


 But I wouldn't want to... 


 The answer is no; that we're going to stop the tax increases that President Bush gave to people in the top brackets. 

We're going to end war as an instrument of policy, with the defense policy of
strength through peace.

So we're not going to be borrowing money from China to fight wars in Baghdad.
We're going to lower our trade deficit by ending NAFTA and the WTO and going
back to trade based on worker's rights.

We're going to have a change in our economy so that people will be able to get
something for the taxes they pay but they're not going to have to pay more.

(APPLAUSE)


 Wait a minute. He talked about my wife. 


 You notice what CNN did. They didn't put anybody to the left of me. Think about it. 

(LAUGHTER)


 And you know what? And you know -- and I'm glad I get a chance to debate you to my left, because there's no one more mainstream on the war and on health care and on trade than I am, Anderson. 

Now, about Senator Gravel: Didn't he show great courage during the Vietnam
War, when he exposed what was going on with the Pentagon Papers. Really
courageous American. I'm proud that he's up here.

Thank you, Senator Gravel.

(APPLAUSE)


 Actually, George, this debate is insufficient, because you're really not including all the candidates here... 


 ... and polarize -- you're trying to polarize people out of the race. Now, let me talk about an issue that concerns the people of Iowa, and that is health care. The Iowa AF of L-CIO, two days ago endorsed H.R. 676, a not-for-profit health care system, a bill that I'm the coauthor of. 

And Senator Edwards said that, you know, we're talking about challenging the
insurance companies. Well, actually, every other health care plan represented
by everyone else here on stage keeps the private insurers in charge.

Matter of fact, according to an article in the Nation, Humana, which
participates in a hedge fund called Fortress, is in a position to just clean
up with the privatization of Medicare.

I'm the only one up here who challenges this system of premiums, co-pays and
deductibles.


 So let's give the American people a real choice, not a conditioned choice, based on polls, but a choice that's based on their practical aspirations for health care for their families, for a not- for-profit system. 

We have to break the hold, which the insurance companies and the
pharmaceutical companies have on health care.

(APPLAUSE)


 We can talk about George Bush driving a bus into a ditch, but let's not forget there was a Democratic Senate in charge that OK'ed the war. And those senators who are up on this stage helped to authorize that war and they have to take responsibility for that. 

Likewise, they have to take responsibility for funding the war. You say you're
opposed to it, but you keep funding it.

I think the American people have to look at that and ask, What's going on?

Now, I've had a plan on the table for four years to get out of Iraq, and
Democrats in Congress have to stand up to the pledge they made in 2006 to take
us out of that war. They have to tell the president now, "Bring the troops
home. We're not going to give you any more money for that war."


 The American people have a right to expect that we're going to take a new direction. But, frankly, you cannot expect a new direction with the same kind of thinking that took us into war in the first place. 

We cannot leave more troops there. We cannot privatize Iraq's oil. We cannot
partition that country and expect there's going to be peace.

We need a president who understands that, one who's been right from the start,
and one who has shown the judgment, the wisdom, and the maturity to take the
right stand at the time that it counted most, when the American people needed
someone to stand up. And I'm the one who did that.

(APPLAUSE)


 George, I've been standing here for the last 45 minutes praying to God you were going to call on me. And my... 

(LAUGHTER)

(APPLAUSE)

And I come from a spiritual insight which says that...


 I come from a spiritual insight which says that we have to have faith but also have good works. 


 So when we think of the scriptures, Isaiah making justice the measuring line; Matthew 25, "whatever you do for the least of our brethren"; where the biblical injunction, "make peace with your brother" -- all of these things relate to my philosophy. 

Now, the founders meant to have separation of church and state, but they never
meant America to be separate from spiritual values. As president, I'll bring
strong spiritual values into the White House, and I'll bring values that value
peace, social and economic justice, values that remember where I came from.

Thank you.

(APPLAUSE)


 My entire life I've been saying things that other people were afraid to say, and I've been consistently proven right. So this is what I do. 

And in the White House, I'll let the American people know exactly what's going
on, our path to peace, to not-for-profit health care, to education for all.
That's the kind president that the American people want, straight from the
shoulder.

(APPLAUSE)


 Were you tricked? 


 Were you tricked, Senator Clinton? 


 Let me be the one who tells you how we're going to do this. I've sponsored a universal pre-kindergarten bill that will be paid for by a 15 percent cut in that bloated, wasteful Pentagon budget, which will yield $75 billion a year that we will put right into education. 

We will create a universal pre-kindergarten program with a qualitative
emphasis for education -- not quantitative so we make our children good little
test-takers, but qualitative so our children learn real skills, learning
skills, language, arts, and help them grow.

Learning theorists know this. Child psychologists understand this. Piaget
talked all about this. Let's give our children the chance to grow, but let's
put the money there. And I know where to get it...


 ... and I'm ready to take that action. Thank you. 

(APPLAUSE)


 The answer is no. The Fed is actually looking at bailing out the creditors. And what we're looking at is a continuation of the problem and a postponement of the day of reckoning. 

We need to have a government take strong action where we'll loan money to
those who are in trouble. But we need to do that in exchange for having the
power, the money-lending power that the banks have right now, come back to the
government; government spends money into circulation; and then government can
maintain control over the economy.


 Unless we take this action, we're looking at a situation of the collapse of our economy, and we're looking at a situation where these hedge funds will try to get a bail-out while millions of Americans lose their homes. Save the American homeowners. 

(APPLAUSE)


 I would say the decisive moment in my life was when my family was living in a car in the inner city and I thought about all the dreams that I could have as a child. And I decided, at an early age, that I was going to be someone. 

And I've had a lot of help along the way to get to this stage, but I can tell
you, as president, the American people will have someone who remembers where
he came from and has the compassion in his heart to lift up everyone to make
sure everyone has a chance.

Thank you.

(APPLAUSE)


 As the only one on this stage who actually voted against the war and voted 100 percent of the time against funding the war, I have a rather unique perspective. I've introduced legislation, H.R. 1234, which is the plan to end the Iraq War. To me, it is fairly astonishing to have Democrats, who took back the power of the House and the Senate in 2006, to stand on this stage and tell the American people that this war will continue to 2013 and perhaps past that. 

I want everyone to know. I want the American people to know that I've been on
this from the beginning, and I know that we can get out of there three months
after I take office, or after the new president takes office, if one is
determined to do that. And I want to make it clear that the plan includes
enemy occupation, closing the bases, bringing the troops home, setting in
motion a program of reconciliation, not partition, between the Iraqs --
between the Sunnis, the Shi'ites and the Kurds, having an honest
reconstruction program, having a program of reparations, and giving the people
of Iraq full control over their oil, which currently most of the people on
this stage have said should be privatized in one way, shape or form.

And so I believe that if we're really going to have peace, no partition, let
them -- let them unite. We remember what Lincoln said years ago. It's true for
Iraq, as well. A house divided against itself cannot stand. If we divide Iraq,
essentially we're going to be setting the stage for more war. And I stand for
strength through peace -- a whole new approach.


 By -- by April of 2007, and you can mark that on your calendars if you want, to take a new direction. 


 Well, make that -- make that 2009. I'm ready to be president today. (Laughter.) 


 You're splitting Iraq up. That's what it does. 


 I would like to say that we're forgetting who we are as Americans, Tim. You have to remember the message of the Statue of Liberty. That is who America is. "Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses." 

We're forgetting that. We should be talking about cancelling NAFTA and WTO,
giving workers' rights a premium in negotiations with Mexico. It's a new
direction.


 Absolutely, I -- you know what? The federal law -- there's a moral law here. 


 And the moral law says that the immigrants are being used and mistreated. 


 You know, Tim, that was NBC's story. Now I want the people to know what the real story was. 

I took a stand on behalf of the people of Cleveland to save a municipal
electric system. The banks and the utilities in Cleveland, the private
utilities, were trying to force me to sell that system. And so on December
15th, 1978, I told the head of the biggest bank, when he told me I had to sell
the system in order to get the city's credit renewed, that I wasn't going to
do it because -- you know, I remember where I came from.

I remembered my parents counting pennies to pay the utility bills in one of
the many apartments we lived in, and so I know why I went into public office.
I went in to stand up for the people. And the people in Cleveland in 1994
asked me to come back to public life because at that point they expanded a
municipal electric system that the banks demanded that I sell, and I showed
the ability to stand up for the people.

You know, my campaign in '94 was "because it was right," and people put me in
the Ohio Senate for that reason; '96 it was "light up Congress" as a symbol of
saving the municipal electric system; and this year it's going to be "light up
America" because I'm going to challenge those interest groups. I put my job on
the line. How many people would be willing to put their job on the line in the
face of pressure from banks and utilities? As this story gets told, people
will want me to be their next president because they'll see in me not only the
ability to take a stand, but the ability to live with integrity.

Thank you.


 I think -- 


 You know, of course we ought to be raising the cap in order to protect Social Security, which is solid through about 2040 without any changes whatsoever. But what everyone should realize in this country is that Wall Street is very interested in privatization. And unless we have a president who states very clearly no privatization, believes in economic growth -- and I'm talking about a new WPA, a Works Green Administration, creating technologies for a green America -- we have to believe in economic growth. We should raise the ceiling. 

And in addition to that, Tim, we should be thinking about lowering -- lowering
-- the retirement age to 65. People's bodies break down. There are people who
are retiring early; they don't have the kind of economic help they should get.
We should be thinking raise the cap, lower the retirement age to 65, stop
privatization, increased economic growth.

That's what a Kucinich presidency will mean.


 Wait a minute. I've been breathing in a lot of secondhand smoke here tonight. (Cheers.) You bet I'll go for a national law. (Continued cheers, applause.) 


 You know, I think that not only about service, but we have to have confidence in young Americans. And a president who reaches out to them and talks to them about drinking responsibly is much better than a president who tells them, "Thou shalt not," because young people will do what they do, but they're looking for leadership from a president. I'm ready to provide that leadership. 

Of course they should be able to drink at age 18, and they should be able to
vote at age 16.


 No. And he said something else that didn't receive much notice. He said that the Iraq war was about oil -- something that I said on "Meet the Press," Tim, on February 23rd, 2003. I think that we need to make sure that the next president was right about Iraq, was right about the Patriot Act. You can have a president like that -- that was right about Iraq, who voted against it from the beginning, and against the funding. You can have a president who voted against -- who is for a single payer not-for-profit health care system, one who will stop the Patriot Act -- 


 \-- or you can have a president who's tall. (Laughter, applause.) 


 Well, first of all, you know, I know a little bit about this because I actually blocked a nuclear dump in Ohio. And I was one of the few up here who actually spoke against having a nuclear dump in Nevada. 

The truth of the matter is that nuclear power is very expensive, Tim.


 They never factored in the cost of storage, which continues forever. I want to keep utility rates low by having a Works Green Administration, emphasis on solar and wind, drive down this energy curve of hydrocarbon consumption. And, finally, no more war as an instrument of policy. No more resource wars. We've got to make the transition away from oil, and that's what a Kucinich administration would do. 


 Thirty seconds -- you're on my time. 

The metaphor that we're using here is one that relates to, really, 9/11 and
the terror that followed, and the politicization of fear which occurred in
this society.

A Kucinich administration will be about strength through peace. No
unilateralism, no preemption, no first-strike, using -- and a rejection of war
as an instrument of policy.

So of course you'd use a pardon, but we have to remember, this Constitution
has to be redeemed and this administration has took us down a -- really, a
(inaudible).

I will not only restore the Constitution, but I want a new national security
doctrine, strength through peace, that will make us safer, because the neo
kind approach has made America less safe and more vulnerable.


 I carry that with me at every debate, this prayer from St. Francis, which says, Lord, make me an instrument of your peace, and I believe very strongly that all of us can be instruments of peace. And that's what I try to bring to public life. 


 Just as five years ago I warned that there was no evidence that would merit war against Iraq and warned this country not to do it, so for the past few years I've been saying that there's no evidence that Iran had a nuclear weapons program. 

And unfortunately, the president, just as he was able to convince some of my
colleagues here to vote for the war against Iraq, despite the fact there
wasn't any real evidence, so he has been able to get some of my colleagues
here -- Senators Clinton, Obama and Edwards -- to say of Iran: All options are
on the table.


 As a matter of fact, he's still saying that. 

So we really need to switch to not just diplomacy, but my candidacy offers the
American people someone for president who was right the first time.


 Not everyone. 


 Let me characterize my own remarks. 


 All I did was raised my hand. I wanted a chance to respond. Thank you. 


 The point that Senator Clinton made was a valid point, with respect to the comments of Senator Obama and also the comments of Senator Edwards at the Herzliya conference. 

See, when people say all options are on the table, as the three senators have,
they actually encouraged President Bush and licensed his rhetoric.

And what I'm saying is that I'm the only one here who in Congress repeatedly
challenged -- in every chance, in every legislation repeatedly challenged this
mindset that said all options are on the table and that Iran had nuclear
weapons programs.


 And I'm the only one here who can make that claim. 


 Thank you. 

To answer your question directly, we need to reach out to Muslim nations and
to tell them America is taking a different direction.


 No more unilateralism, preemption, first strike. We're going to -- our policy will be strength through peace. As the one up here who not only voted against, but voted 100 percent of the time against funding the war in Iraq, the war in Iraq was used to create a wedge between the United States and Islam. 

The build-up to an attack on Iran was really a danger to Israel, because
everyone knows that Israel would have paid the price for the United States
wrongheaded policy. That's not being discussed in any of the analysis yet, but
I'm here to say it.

We need to protect and provide for the security of Israel, and to make sure
that the Palestinians can have a state. And it has to be done under
circumstances where the security of all parties and the civil rights and human
rights of all parties are protected.


 Yes. I maybe the only one up here who actually voted against China trade because of the concerns I had that the U.S. was not going to be able to maintain its manufacturing base, which is central to maintaining a middle class. 

What we've seen is that without solid trade policies, we're undermined.

Without a strength-through-peace doctrine of rejecting war as an instrument of
policy, we're going to keep borrowing money from China. Let us not forget
we're borrowing money from China to finance the war in Iraq.

And in addition to that, the speculation on Wall Street has weakened our
economy.

We need a policy of constructive engagement with China, stop the arms race
with them, work to make sure we have a global climate change treaty with
China, get them to transition out of nuclear and coal and oil.


 I'm talking about a whole new direction that's based on a doctrine of strength through peace. And I have a voting record up here to back it up, unlike some of my esteemed colleagues. 


 Either buy America or bye-bye America. We have to recognize that. And a Kucinich administration will rebuild American industry. 

And while I'm listening to this debate right here, I'm the only one up here
who voted against China trade. My good friend John Edwards who is a friend of
mine, you know, he voted for it and is now decrying what's come over.

I'm saying that it is critical that we rebuild America's industry, that we not
get in an arms race with China, that we have new trade laws, based on workers'
rights, human rights, environmental quality, that we take a new direction with
respect to environmental policy, getting China away from nuclear, coal and
oil.

I mean, we should be able to have solid relations with China, but we've got to
get our own house in order, stop the speculation on Wall Street, and stop Wall
Street from moving our jobs out of this country.

And that's what the China trade vote was all about.


 Rely on the Constitution. 

You know, we don't -- we don't encourage vigilantism in this country. We have
a Constitution. We have due process. We have equal protection. We have habeas
corpus.

This administration would like to shred the Constitution and deny people all
those rights. But when we get into that, what we do, we take the path of
denying constitutional rights, and we're back to Abu Ghraib and Guantanamo and
all those other violations of rights that we're ashamed of now.

And I'm saying that we have to realize that these are economic refugees from
NAFTA. You know, I've said it over and over -- cancel NAFTA, negotiate a new
trade agreement with Mexico based on worker's rights, human rights,
environmental quality principles.

Give a path to legalization for the people who have been here. You can't send
them home willy-nilly. You have to have a way in which our immigration policy
resonates with the deeper principles of inclusiveness in America, as
symbolized by our Statute of Liberty.


 Absolutely. I mean, you know, we have to recognize that many of them have continued to work in providing services. We have to get them a path to legalization. 

But you raised the question -- the question is: Are they driving wages down?
The passage of NAFTA helped drive wages down. Wall Street speculation, ending
in closing plants, have driven wages down. Non-productive military spending
drives wages down.

What your panel here is conjuring is taking -- is the same approach that the
Bush administration has sued in denying any kind of rights at all to so-called
enemy non-combatants.

And I say that a Kucinich administration, everyone who's in this country or
within the reach of this country, has to be accorded constitutional rights
that would be accorded to anyone else, because that's what we stand on.

This is one of the reasons why I am pursuing impeachment against the vice
president, because he's trashed the Constitution.


 I was able to defeat an English only proposal in the Ohio Senate years ago when I pointed out our state's founding documents were in German. 

We need to have our children learn languages. I mean, what does this serve the
other? Why are we separating ourselves from the possibility of being able to
merge with the world. An insular and isolated America, doesn't cut it. And so,
what I'm talking about is rebuild our economy, do it confidently, and
encourage the American people to work -- to reach out.

My political philosophy -- I see the world as one. I see the world as being
interconnected and interdependent and there being an imperative for human
unity.

And so we need to reach out and education is the way to do it. Let's have our
children learn languages and let's grow our economy in a confident way: full
employment economy, jobs for all, health care for all, not-for-profit health
care for all.


 I wrestle with the question as to whether or not the president and the vice president should be held liable for crimes for taking us unto a war based on lies. 

I mean, I'm ready to be president. I've been right all along on Iraq, on Iran,
on not-for-profit health care, on giving our children a chance for an
education from age three, all the way through...


 Listen. I'm ready to be president. I am president. And the standards -- I'm the only one here who has said that both President Bush and Vice President Cheney ought to be impeached for lying to the American people, not only to take us into war against Iraq, but now, this new development, with the national intelligence estimate. 

Tell us what our standards should be for the Oval Office. Tell us what
standards -- I'm asking my colleagues here -- that you would expect to be
obtained by anybody who would be president.

Can you lie about a war? Is that OK?




 Dennis Kucinich, congressman Cleveland, Ohio, City of Champions. 


 Benjamin Franklin once said that those who would give up their essential liberties to achieve a sense of security deserve neither. 

The Patriot Act has undermined civil rights in this country, and as the
president of the United States, one of my first acts in office would be to
move forward to have the Justice Department overturn the Patriot Act as
unconstitutional. We have to remember that 9/11 led us down a cul-de-sac.
Americans need to reconnect with our deeper sense of self here, Wolf. We have
to remember that, you know, the courage that it took to form this country is
still within us, and I want to have what I call the 9-10 Forum to recreate --
to help us reconnect with a deeper sense of who we are as Americans.


 I honor the people who served. We all owe them a debt of gratitude, but those who sent those soldiers were wrong. They should have never been sent there in the first place, Wolf. This war has been based on lies, and we could have a productive evening here right now if all of my colleagues on this stage or in the Congress would commit to telling the Democratic leadership not even to offer a funding bill because that's really the way to end the war, Wolf, just say no money, the war's over. 

You want to end it, bring them home, stop the funding.

And this is where Senator Clinton says well this is George Bush's war. Oh no.
There's a teachable moment here, and a teachable moment is that this war
belongs to the Democratic party because the Democrats were put in charge by
the people in the last election with the thought that they were going to end
the war. Well, they haven't. They have to stop the funding. And I certainly am
urging all of my colleagues here, don't give them any more money. The money's
in the pipeline right now, enough to bring the troops home.


 Let's end the war and let's make this a productive evening. 


 We don't have to offer a funding bill. 


 I reject this whole approach -- 


 I reject this whole approach. And the American people should know that with half the bankruptcies in the country connected to people not being able to pay their doctor bills or hospital bills, premiums, co-pays and deductibles going so far through the roof -- 46 million Americans, no health care; another 50 million underinsured, there is only one way to get health care coverage for all Americans, and that is to have a universal single-payer, not-for- profit healthcare system, Medicare for All. Wolf, I've written the bill -- it's H.R. 676 -- with John Conyers, supported by 14,000 physicians. 


 And you know what? What Senator Clinton, Senator Edwards, Senator Obama are talking about, they're talking about letting the insurance companies stay in charge. They're talking about continuing a for-profit health care system. (Applause.) And I think -- 


 \-- we need a president who's ready to challenge that. And I'm ready to challenge the insurance companies. 


 Thank you very much, Wolf. 

First of all, thank you and your family for serving.

This country has to end its occupation of Iraq. And as I mentioned earlier,
the Congress, the Democratic Congress, has a very serious responsibility in
this regard.

We should simply not provide any bill at all. It's one thing to say you don't
have the votes. It's another thing not to even offer a bill and tell the
president he had some money now that's in the pipeline to bring the troops
home.

And with respect to this war, this war has degraded our service ability. And
we need to have, certainly, a strong Army, but I believe that peace is the way
we reflect our strength. So I want to see an American military that will be a
strong peacekeeping force, not one that is being misused, like the one in this
administration, misused our military, and we need a commander in chief who
wants to link peace with security and who wants to see America's role working
with the world community in cooperation.


 Well, the first thing we need to do is cut -- first of all, there's a couple different dimensions to this. One is, we need to cut military spending overall by about 25 percent. There's a lot of waste here we're talking about. Money hasn't been focused on the troops per se. This $97 billion that went for this war? This isn't going to the troops. A small fraction goes to the troops. So we need to have a strong military. We need to encourage people to be serving in our country's military, but we've got to end the United States' commitment to war as an instrument of diplomacy. 


 I don't think that a president of the United States, who believes in peace and who wants to create peace in the world, is going to be using assassinations as a tool, because when you do that, it comes back at your country. And I think that Osama bin Laden, if he's still alive, ought to be held to account in an international court of law and so should any other person who's been involved in a violation of international law, which has been result -- which has resulted in the deaths of many people. 

And so I think that an America which has a strong stand morally in the world
is an America that shows a way to get to peace, and an America that stands for
peace is a strong country.

So I would say, to answer that question, I don't believe in assassination
politics, and when you do that, you inevitably bring the assassination of our
own leaders into play.


 I would take the approach that John F. Kennedy took when he said, "Ask not what your country can do for you, ask what you can do for your country," and inspire young people to want to serve; want to serve not only in the military, which is honorable service, but also to serve in helping to clean up our environment; also to serve in tutoring children and helping the elderly and working hospitals. 

There are so many different ways that we can encourage youth to serve. To make
it mandatory loses the point. People want to love America again, and when you
have a president who will inspire the young people, they'll want to get
involved.


 I'm saying that we should not be borrowing money from China to run a war in Iraq. We need to change our spending policies in many ways. 

First of all, stop war. Most of the people on this stage voted consistently to
fund a war we should have never gotten in the first place.

Change our trade laws. We need to get out of NAFTA and the WTO and go back to
bilateral trade -- (applause) -- conditioned on workers' rights, human rights,
and the environment, and stop driving an $800 billion trade deficit.

We need to have health care for all, all Americans in a not-for- profit health
care system. That's going to help the gentleman with his beauty salon and the
small business, when you have a chance to health care at a fraction of what
you're paying now and everything's covered.

And then, finally, environment. I say we can create millions of news jobs with
a new WGA inspiring technologies for wind and solar and insulation on a
domestic basis. We can create new wealth. I want to create new wealth and I
want to stop wasting the money where we're wasting it --


 \-- or losing the wealth in our trade policies. 


 I do, because we're looking at a process here in Washington that most of the American public isn't aware of. And that is, these interest groups have such a hold on our country that right now they're headed to grab the oil of Iraq using our troops. Right now they're keeping a not-for-profit health-care system in its place. Right now they're keeping NAFTA in its place. I'm talking about a real change here that gives the American people a chance to recover their country totally and by moving away from the interest groups -- 


 \-- that, unfortunately, support some of my dear friends here. 


 Keep in mind, we could stop that war in Iraq now by not providing any funding. 

But what I intend to do is to be a president who helps to reshape the world
for peace, to work with all the leaders of the world in getting rid of nuclear
weapons, rejecting policies that create war as an instrument of the diplomacy;
making sure that we cause the nations of the world to come together for fair
trade, cancel NAFTA, cancel the WTO, go back to bilateral trade conditioned on
workers' rights, human rights; create a not-for-profit health care system. I'd
send the bill to Congress.


 I want to share the remarks of Barack Obama, because the fact of the matter is that racial inequality is real, that it affects every area of our lives, as the Covenant pointed out. Now, it's interesting the philosophy that's guiding leaders at every branch of -- in the executive and the judicial branch of government, because they go out and tell people, "Pull yourselves up by the -- by your bootstraps," and then they steal their boots. (Laughter.) 

We need to have a policy in education which first of all is guided by certain
fundamental rights. Jesse Jackson, Jr., has a bill that makes having an equal
opportunity for education a matter of a constitutional privilege. And with
this Supreme Court ruling, it is imperative that we have a constitutional
amendment guaranteeing educational opportunity equality. (Applause.)

Next, in the meantime, universal free kindergarten. Every child age 3, 4 and 5
should have access to full, quality daycare. Eliminate those disparities that
we see early on in school. Eliminate No Child Left Behind, which is aimed at
testing instead of improving children's educational opportunity through
language, music and the arts. (Applause.) And finally, we need to take the
resources away from war and military buildups and assure that every child
should have a chance for a quality college education as well.

Thank you. (Cheers, applause.)


 When you think about the statistics that have been cited here, you realize that it's time to get real about health care and education in America. We need to understand that the ability of our public schools to be able to communicate sex education as a priority at the early age helps children to understand the consequences of their action. 

But there's another dimension here, too, and that is we have a nation of such
wealth, yet we have 46 million Americans without any health insurance, another
50 million underinsured. It's time for us to make every American know that
they should have access. It is a basic right in a Democratic society. We
should be able to fund all those diseases where people are suffering and they
need care, but we have to end that for-profit medicine. It is time to take the
for- profit insurance companies out of the business -- (applause) -- Michael
Moore is right about this, by the way -- and have a not-for- profit health
care where everyone's covered.


 There's three questions involved here: What are we taxed? Who is paying? And how are our tax dollars spent? Right now we know that those who are in the highest brackets are not paying a fair share. We understand that. And we also understand that a lot of these corporations are taking their business offshore so they can offshore their profits and escape paying tens of billions of dollars in taxation. And we also know that our tax dollars right now are being spent overwhelmingly on war and military buildup. I want to see a new direction. (Applause.) I want to see the wealthy pay their fair sure. I want to make sure that these corporations have to -- if they have an American name, they have to pay taxes here, and I want to see the end of war as an instrument of policy. 


 As president, I'll have an attorney general who's going to be sensitive to the very issues that you raised. First of all, we need to seek to end mandatory minimums. (Applause.) We know who's serving those mandatory minimums. Second, we need to have the emphasis, with respect to drug offenses, on rehabilitation, not incarceration. And third, as president, I'll do anything I can to end the federal death penalty, which I've already introduced legislation for in the past. (Applause.) Because we need to have an approach that recognizes the discrimination which exists in our justice system. 

Thank you.


 Absolutely. What happened in New Orleans in the aftermath and how it was dealt with underscores everything that's wrong in this country about race. 

First of all, New Orleans wouldn't have happened if the government had been
more sensitive to make sure that those levees had been repaired when they were
told they were supposed to be repaired. (Applause.)

Secondly -- secondly, New Orleans represents a hope also, because we have to
make sure people have a chance to return, and they should be guaranteed that.
They should also be guaranteed jobs.

I held a hearing yesterday in my Domestic Policy Subcommittee, which shows
that people in New Orleans aren't getting jobs. They're hiring people from
outside, and sometimes when they get jobs, they aren't being paid.


 We've got to change that. We must change it. 


 I've stood behind plant gates that were locked, where grass was growing in the parking lots, where they used to make steel, they used to make bicycles, washing machines. And now there's grass growing in the parking lots. 

I know what the solution is, and you do, too, and I want to challenge my
fellow candidates.

One of my first acts in office will be to cancel NAFTA and the WTO --
(applause) -- and go back to trade conditions on workers' rights, human rights
and environmental quality principles. That's what we must do. A Democratic
administration started NAFTA. A Democratic administration will end it.
(Applause.)


 It's time for the United States to stop looking at Africa as a place where our corporations can exploit the people and -- (cheers, applause) -- I mean, because let's face it, let's -- let's face it, if Darfur had a large supply of oil, this administration would be occupying it right now. 


 We need to -- (cheers, applause) -- we need to stop -- 


 \-- we need to stop giving Sudan a pass. They're looking the other way -- 


 Well, first of all, a clear record as having not only opposed the war from the very beginning -- the only one on this stage who actually voted against the war and also the only one on the stage who voted against funding the war a hundred percent of the time. 

You know, we're here at the Citadel. I want the people of the Citadel to know
that I mourn the passing of those people who gave their lives, but I also
would not hesitate to call upon you to defend this country. But I'll never
send you in pursuit of a political agenda or a lie.

Just like my father before me and like my -- who served in the Marines and my
brother who served in the Marines in Vietnam and my nephew who served in Iraq,
I believed in duty and honor, and I think it's important to have those
commitments to this country.

And so I say we achieve strength through peace. That's the new doctrine that
I'm going to promote throughout this campaign, that we use the science of
human relations and diplomacy, that we pursue an approach which says that you
can use international agreements and treaties and that you can work to settle
your differences without committing the young men and women to war unless it's
absolutely necessary.


 I've actually been involved in that argument for many years. 


 And I think that -- here's what I said in Cleveland. Instead of spending $400 billion or more for a stadium, why don't we just buy the team? (Laughter, cheers.) I mean, really, you know, that's where the money is. So I think that we ought to be talking about an approach that gives people a return for their investment. 

Now with respect to infrastructure, for the third time, I've introduced a
bill. This time it's H.R. 3400. It's a bipartisan bill. Congressman LaTourette
of Ohio is with me on it.

Here's what it will do. It will create millions of new jobs, rebuilding
America's infrastructure, rebuilding roads, water systems, sewer systems,
bridges.

I've been on this for many years. It will create jobs for laborers, for iron
workers, for carpenters, for people who are involved in infrastructure.
Billions of new jobs. It'll create a federal bank of infrastructure
modernization.

Now, the time to talk about infrastructure is a little bit late after Katrina;
it's a little bit late after the bridge has fallen in Minneapolis, but I've
been there, and I understand the implication. Why do you need an
infrastructure? You need an infrastructure so you can create a basis for jobs.
I want a new American manufacturing policy, where the maintenance of steel,
automotive, aerospace and shipping is seen as vital for our national security.
And I want to see America take a new direction in trade as part of this, and
that means it's time to get out of NAFTA and the WTO -- (cheers) -- and have
trade -- and have trade -- and have trade that's based on workers right: the
right to organize, the right to collective bargaining, the right to strike,
the right to decent wages and benefits and on and on.

I'm here for workers standards. (Cheers.)


 You asked a direct question. I think it deserves a direct answer. In my first week in office, I will notify Mexico and Canada that the United States is withdrawing from NAFTA. I will notify the WTO we're withdrawing from the WTO. (Applause.) 

We need a president who knows what the right thing is to do the first time,
not in retrospect. And I think that we need to go back to trade -- excuse me
-- we need to go forward to trade that's based on workers' rights, human
rights and environmental quality principles.

No one else on this stage could give a direct answer because they don't intend
to scrap NAFTA. We're going to be stuck with it. And I'm your candidate if you
want to get out of NAFTA. (Applause.)

Let's hear it. Do you want out of NAFTA? (Cheers, applause.) Do you want out
of the WTO? (Cheers, applause.) Tell these candidates.


 Listen to the workers. Listen to the words of the workers of America. (Cheers, applause.) 


 Thank you. 


 Thank you. 


 The time to worry about China trade was really when some of my friends up here on the stage actually voted for most favored nation. 

Now, as president, my most favored nation is America. And I want to say, you
know, there was a myth when I was growing up in Cleveland that if you dig a
hole deep enough, you'll get to China. We're there -- (cheers) -- and we need
to have a president that understands that and is ready to take a whole new
direction in trade with China. (Continued cheers, applause.)

Thank you very much. A working person's president. Thank you.


 Keith, we need to get out of Iraq and get out of Iraq now, and I have a plan to do just that. Congress -- The Democratic Congress has the ability to tell President Bush, you got $97 billion six weeks ago; use that money to bring the troops home and set in motion an international security and peacekeeping force that would stabilize Iraq. I'm the only one here on the stage who had the vision and the foresight to not only vote against the war but also vote against funding for the war. 

People want a president who makes the right decision the first time, and the
right decision was never to go in there. And I'm going to get those troops
home. And I'll keep the pressure up on a Democratic Congress and I ask for
your help.


 It'll be very easy to predict where I'll come from, because I am a member of the AFL-CIO, Local 600 of the IATSE. I have been working with unions my whole life. The right to organize is a basic right in a Democratic society. 

And in a workers White House under a Kucinich administration, the right to
organize, the right to collective bargaining, the right to strike, the right
to decent wages and benefits, the right to a safe workplace, the right to a
secure retirement, the right to participate in a political process -- these
are all basic rights that will be the hallmark of a presidency by Kucinich.

Thank you. (Applause.)


 I've introduced a bill. I'm the coauthor of a bill, H.R. 676, to provide for universal, single-payer, not-for-profit health care, Medicare for all. Isn't it time to cover every American with a not-for-profit system? Furthermore, 46 million Americans without any health care, 50 million Americans uninsured. You know and I know this is the issue at the bargaining table. With my plan, no more premiums, no more co-pays, no more deductibles. We're already paying for a universal standard of care, we're not getting it. Let's take health care off the bargaining table and put it right in the kitchen where people have the care with a Kucinich plan for universal, single-payer, not-for-profit health care. 

Thank you. (Cheers, applause.)


 First of all, you know, my position is to try to lead the Democrats, and so I have a bill for not-for-profit health care, where I've been able to get 72 members of Congress to sign on for it. I have a bill to create an infrastructure to rebuild America; I'm lobbying members of Congress for that. I have a bill to get us out of Iraq; I'm lobbying members of Congress for that. 

I, frankly, believe that the Democratic Congress took a major responsibility
in November of 2006 to get out of Iraq.

They haven't kept that promise yet, and I'm working all the time to try to get
the Democrats to keep that promise to bring our troops home. I've been there
for every single piece of legislation -- health care, retirement security,
jobs -- and I'm going to be there to keep pushing the envelope to get us out
of Iraq, and we shouldn't have to wait for a Democratic president to do it.


 The Democratic Congress needs to act now. 


 Thank you. (Cheers, applause.) 


 I'm kind of the Seabiscuit of this campaign. (Laughter.) And when I come from behind to win this race, people are going to say, "No way we're going to run against this guy." 

And so -- and another reason they're going to say it is because my first month
in office -- cancel NAFTA and the WTO, trade-based on workers' rights, human
rights, environmental quality principles, on not-for-profit health care
system, saving Social Security, making sure we have universal pre-kindergarten
-- let me tell you, when I push through that agenda and establish a workers'
White House, they're going to be there to say, "No competition in 2012. We're
ready for Kucinich for seven years, eight years. Let's keep going." Make it
happen. (Cheers, applause.)


 That's not true. (Laughs.) 


 Well, first of all, we need to adamantly reject any kind of a move towards war with Iran. There's no basis for it whatsoever. 

But we have to realize, Tim, that we have a number of enablers, who happen to
be Democrats, who have said over the last year, with respect to Iran, all
options are on the table.

And when you say all options are on the table, you are licensing President
Bush. When -- and I'm the only one up here on the stage who not only voted
against the war in Iraq, voted against funding the war, but also led the
effort against Bush's drive towards war.

The problem is, these policies of preemption license a war. Preemption, by
virtue of international law, is illegal. Our president has already violated
international law. The war in Iraq is illegal. Even planning for the war
against Iran is illegal.

Tim, we're here in Philadelphia, the birthplace of democracy. I want to know
when this Democratic Congress is going to stand up for the Constitution and
hold the president accountable with Article II, Section 4: an impeachment act.
I think that our democracy is in peril. And unless the Democrats and the
Congress stand up for the Constitution, we are going to lose our country.

We need to challenge him on this war but we need to challenge him at his core.
And the core is, there needs to be a separation of powers, a balance of
powers. Things are out of balance. It is time for us to stand up for the
Constitution of the United States. (Applause.)


 With all due respect to our friends from the media here, the media itself has to be careful how you frame these questions. We don't want to be put in a position where we are taking this country to the threshold of war. The media did play a role in taking us into war in Iraq, and I'm urging the members of the media to urge restraint upon you and our president, whose rhetoric is out of control. 

I would go to Iran and I would urge Iran not just to not have nuclear weapons;
I would urge them to give up nuclear power because nuclear power is the most
expensive type of power there is. It is not a sustainable type of power
because of the cost of it. It -- it is unsafe. I would urge Iran to give up
nuclear power.

But I would also do -- do something further. It is time that the United States
government enforced and -- and participated in fully the Non-Proliferation
Treaty, which calls for the abolition of all nuclear weapons.

We must lead the way and we must have a president who understands the danger
of these nuclear weapons, and have America lead the way among all nations
towards nuclear abolition. When we do that, we will have the credibility to go
to an Iran, and any other nation that may have desire for a nuclear power, to
say, look, we want to take it in a different direction; we are not going to
stand by and watch our country lost because we are ratcheting up the rhetoric
towards war against Iran.

We have to stop this, Tim. We have to stop ratcheting up the rhetoric for war.
We really need to stop it.


 Well, I'm -- I'm glad to hear people take a stand for integrity. When people get money from New York hedge funds and then they attack another person for getting money from Washington interest groups, you know what? They're both right. So I'm not going to get in the middle of that one. 

Now, I want to go beyond that. The American people have a right to know what's
different here among all these candidates. We haven't really established that,
I don't think. And I'm the only one up here who stands for a not-for-profit
health care system, which means that the insurance industry has enormous
influence. In this race, why shouldn't Democrats stand for universal single-
payer not-for-profit, with 46 million Americans under- -- uninsured and 50
million Americans underinsured?

Tim, I want to tell you something. There's got to be people watching this at
home saying, "Hey, you haven't talked about me losing my job because of
NAFTA." Well, I'll cancel NAFTA and -- and -- and the WTO and have trade
that's based on workers' rights, human rights and environmental quality
principles.

Somebody's got to be saying, "Wait a minute, who's talking about whether I'm
going to have health care?" I've introduced the bill, H.R. 676.

You have somebody worried about losing their home. We need to cancel Bush's
tax cuts and flip them so we give the benefit to the 80 percent while
currently it's going to the top 1 percent so people will have more money so
they can save their homes.

I mean, we have to talk about people's practical aspirations here. And if we
don't do that tonight, this debate is a total flop.


 Everyone knows that the war against Iraq was about oil. This administration is trying to gain control of Iraq's oil with the help of Congress. It's time we had a president who stood for the Constitution and international law, and that's exactly what I'll do. Everyone knows that the saber-rattling against Iran is driving up the price of oil. 

We have to stop the war in Iraq, bring our troops home, end the occupation,
have an international security and peacekeeping force that moves in as our
troops leave. We have to stop planning for war against Iran. We have to insist
that we enforce the Constitution of the United States, which this president
continues to violate. And again I state that the president and the vice
president should be subject to impeachment. Then we can start to get control
of our energy policies by rejecting this doctrine of preemption, which is not
worthy of this nation.


 Of? 





 It's one of the reasons why the American people are so distressed with the current condition of the Democratic Party. They won't stand up to Wall Street, with its over a trillion dollars of unregulated capital with hedge funds. They won't end the war, as our party promised to do in the 2006 election. They won't stand up to the insurance companies, the for-profit insurance companies, by joining me in a not-for-profit system. 

So people are asking, then, what's the difference between Democrats and
Republicans? Tim, my candidacy is a candidacy which will protect the interests
of Main Street: no privatization of Social Security, make the hedge funds
accountable, protect the small investors who are at risk with these public
offerings of these hedge funds. My domestic policy subcommittee's been looking
at this. I was one of the first ones on Capitol Hill to look at it.

Right now, it's all about a redistribution of the wealth upwards, Tim. You
know, the tax system is about redistributing the wealth upwards. The health
care system redistributes the wealth upwards. Our energy policies redistribute
the wealth upwards. We have to have a president who is independent enough to
be able to stand up to these interest groups and push the Democratic Congress
to defend the American people by -- by standing for the end of the war in
Iraq; by standing for a universal, not-for-profit health care system; by
standing for control of these oil companies, which are out of control; and
finally, by standing for the Constitution.

I will say it one more time: It's time for the Democratic Party to take a
position on impeachment and for the House of Representatives to move the bill
that I've introduced.


 There's a statue above the House of Representatives of a woman whose arm is outstretched, and she is protecting a child sitting next to a pile of books. The title of this statue is Peace Protecting Genius. We need to have a country that stands for peace, that gets us out of the wars. We see the connection between global warring and global warming; we cut the Pentagon budget (15/50 ?) percent; $75 billion will go into a universal pre- kindergarten program so our children ages 3, 4 and 5 will have access to full-time day care, and more money would go into elementary and secondary education. 

In addition to that, our college-age students need to know that with a
Kucinich administration, they're guaranteed a two- or four-year college,
tuition-free, that will be paid for by the government investing in our young
people. That's the kind of approach I'll take to education.


 I'm the co-author of the bill H.R. 676, that establishes Medicare for all. 

As long as you have the private insurance companies involved in providing
health services, people aren't going to get care. Doctors know that the
insurance companies want to substitute their judgment for their practice.
Everyone knows that the insurance companies make money not providing health
care.

I'm standing for Medicare for all. There is no one else on this stage who is
ready to take on the insurance companies directly by saying, you know, we
should join every other industrialized nation in the world by caring for our
people, by having a not-for-profit health care system. Just because you say
it's universal doesn't mean it's not for profit. Even the insurance companies
want a universal health care system.


 Believe what? 


 I did. And the rest of the account -- (interrupted by laughter) -- I didn't -- I -- it was unidentified flying object, okay. It's like -- it's unidentified. I saw something. 

Now, to answer your question, I'm moving my -- and I'm also going to move my
campaign office to Roswell, New Mexico and another one, an extra, to New
Hampshire, okay. (Laughter.) And also, you have to keep in mind that more --
that Jimmy Carter saw a UFO, and also that more people in this country have
seen UFOs than, I think, approve of George Bush's presidency. (Laughter.)


 And so -- (laughter) -- wait. We're just getting started here. 


 What was the percentage? 


 What was that percentage? 


 Thank you. 


 Only if they oppose war as an instrument of policy. (Applause.) 


 I take issue with your description of people being illegal immigrants. There aren't any illegal human beings; that's number one. Number two, they're undocumented. And I believe that the best way to do it -- (applause) -- thank you -- I believe the best way to deal with this is cancel NAFTA and renegotiate the trade agreement with Mexico. (Cheers, applause.) 

Also --


 So the driver's -- 


 Give people -- Wolf -- 


 You give people a path to legalization, and then they can be legal and have their driver's license. That's the way to work it. That's the way to work it. 


 You know what? You give people a path to legalization, and you work to make sure that you don't criminalize their status any further. And again, I take exception to the way you frame that question. (Applause.) 


 My father was a truck driver. He was a member of the Teamsters. I happen to be a member of the IATSE. I think that the trade -- that the union movement is essential to upholding human rights. And I think that if we had trade agreements that had workers' rights in them, that would lift up conditions for workers in this country and in all countries. 

So I'm the candidate of workers in this -- this campaign because I've stood
for jobs for all, full-employment economy; health care for all; education for
all. And the fact of the matter is that a Kucinich administration will mean a
worker's White House.

Right now wealth is being accelerated upwards, and I'm the one candidate in
the race who comes right from the working class and can address those needs
directly because I remember where I came from. (Applause.)


 Well, you know, the Teamsters wanted to drill in Alaska. I voted against drilling in Alaska. So it's not like I'm a slam dunk on every issue. (Scattered applause.) 


 But I'm for working people. That's why I'm up here. 


 Hello? Hello? 


 Excuse me? 


 No, the occupation is fueling the insurgency. In 2003, I put forth a plan to get out of Iraq. I'm actually the only one on this stage who voted against the war, voted against funding the war a hundred percent of the time -- (cheers, applause) -- and also who has a plan to bring the troops home, and they should be brought home now. (Applause.) 

And let me tell you something. The Democrats in Congress have not done the
right thing for the American people. They should tell President Bush we're not
going to give you another time. We're not putting a bill on the floor. Bring
them home now. (Cheers, applause.)

Also, when you talked about Pakistan you didn't get a chance to me on that
question, but I want to point something out to you, Wolf. You cannot look at
Pakistan and the destabilization that's occurring in many Muslim nations
without understanding the role that our aggression against Iraq has played in
contributing to that destabilization. (Applause.)

So I'm speaking about a new policy of strength through peace, no more
unilateralism, no more preemption, no more first strike -- to open dialogue,
diplomacy, adherence to international law. (Applause.)


 Well, of course they do; I mean, in the same way that people who voted for the war bear responsibility for what's going on, people who voted for the Patriot Act bear responsibility for what's going on -- (cheers, applause) -- people who voted for Yucca Mountain bear responsibility. People have to take responsibility for their positions. 

Now, let's talk about China trade. The fact of the matter is, Wolf, it was
well known when China trade came up that China doesn't have environmental
quality standards, doesn't have health standards, doesn't have workers'
rights, doesn't permit people to form unions. Everyone knew that.

And for someone to come up afterwards -- and I think in the last debate I
think Hillary Clinton was criticized by John Edwards for some trade-related
issue; but the fact of the matter is, John, you voted for China trade
understanding that workers were going to be hurt.

Now, you're a trial lawyer. You knew better. I'm saying that it's important --
(boos) --


 Really. 


 This is a fact, though. I mean, I'm not backing down from this. This is a fact. 


 People have to take responsibility for their positions. (Applause.) 


 Product liability. 


 It was passed in the Clinton administration. 


 (Inaudible) -- put it there from the beginning. 


 They weren't -- it wasn't in there from the beginning. 


 It wasn't in there from the beginning. That -- it wasn't in there from the beginning -- (inaudible). 


 That's because I read it. (Laughter, cheers.) 


 I -- you're owed an apology. You really are. And every American should be able to present themselves without having to be further scrutinized based on ethnic identity. 

But let's go back to the point that you made here. The time -- you know, the
president of the United States is called upon to make the right decision at
the right time. And you've seen here tonight people who voted for the war,
voted to fund the war, and now they have a different position; people who
voted for the Patriot Act, now they have a different position; people who
voted for China trade, now they have a different position; people who voted
for Yucca Mountain, now they had a different position. Just imagine what it
will be like to have a president of the United States who's right the first
time. Just imagine. (Cheers, applause.)

And -- and I don't think -- I don't think that the first questioner's question
was really answered, about what are you going to do about this president, and
for that matter the vice president, because they're out of control and the
Congress isn't doing anything. (Applause.) I --


 It's called impeachment, and you don't wait. You do it now. (Cheers, applause.) 


 You don't wait. (Cheers, applause.) 


 Now. (Cheers, applause.) 


 Impeach them now. 


 That's not true. 


 A Kucinich appointment to the Supreme Court would have a litmus test on abortion. It's a -- it's a question of a woman's right to choose and a right to privacy. 

But a president has to do more than that. A president has to be a healer, and
this has been one of the great divides in our country. And so I want to also
let the American people know that I'll stand for prenatal care, postnatal
care, child care, a living wage, universal health care, sex education --


 \-- birth control. We can make abortions less necessary if we have a healer in the White House, and we can also protect a woman's right to choose. We can do both. (Applause.) 


