 Yes, George, I've been here before. I was here when we stood up to the Russians in Central Europe when they were ringing our allies with SS-20 missiles. We stood up them and we finally brought that wall down. 

I was here when we did Central America, when the liberals were raging that we
had to get out of Salvador. Today, Salvadoran troops are standing side-by-side
with Americans in Iraq.

And let me tell you something I'm tired of. I watched the Democrat debate. I
watched them say, as my colleague has said, "Just bring them home. Come home."
And it was a race to see who could stampede for the exit the quickest.

And you know something? The Marines in Anbar province, which is almost half of
Iraq, have turned that situation around. They brought the communities there on
our side, fighting back against Al Qaida. Not a single Democrat...

(APPLAUSE)

Not a single Democrat candidate paused in their rush for the exit to say to
our Marines, "Good job. You guys are fighting and achieving, with blood, sweat
and tears, what this country needs." We've got our best military leadership in
Iraq right now. We are standing up the Iraq military, the 129 battalions. When
they are stood up, when they're reliable, battle-ready, they rotate onto the
battlefield, they displace American heavy combat forces. That's the right way
to leave, not a stampede for the exit.


 Yeah. Let's get back to freedom. One thing you can't do right now, if you're an American who has a health insurance plan is you can't buy health insurance across state lines. Now, we've seen studies that have shown that the same coverage that costs 750 bucks a month in Massachusetts, you can buy in Missouri for 170 bucks a month. 


 But you can't buy your health insurance across state lines like Americans buy lots of stuff across state lines. George, you know, I had a senior citizen come into my office one day. She had a $10 wrist brace on. And she said, "I was told not to complain about this, because government is paying for it." She gave me the bill. It was $525. That—you're going to see a lot of $525 wrist braces if we pass—if we continue to pass this SCHIP which really is the first extension of socialized medicine. This is socialized medicine. It's going to go to families that make $60,000 a year. Those aren't poor children. 

(APPLAUSE)


 Yes, I disagree with it. 

(CROSSTALK)


 George, let me tell you, Barack Obama didn't understand, there are now 100,000 Pakistani troops who have been moved to the border. They have moved two divisions to the border, in fact, one of them out of the high country on the Indian border. You right now have operations that are being taken in cooperation with American forces in Afghanistan. The last thing you do when you are trying to convince your allies all over the world to work with you is when you have one country which has taken 100,000 military personnel and moved them into that place—and we all know what the problem is. The problem is that you have the tribal chiefs in that strip in Pakistan accommodating the Taliban and Al Qaida. When you have a country which is cooperating, you don't tell them you are going to unilaterally move against them, or you are somehow going to undertake this by yourself. 


 Those mountain ranges in Pakistan are 16,000 feet high. We need the Pakistani army to work that with American support. That's the right way. 


 George, it depends on the credentials of the president. I served in Vietnam—didn't do anything special, but I wore the uniform. I've been the chairman of the Armed Services Committee for the last four years. And my son has now done two tours in Iraq and one in Afghanistan. I can look the American people in the eye and say, "We're all in this together." So I would not share the role of commander in chief with a vice president. If you've got other folks that have less background in national security, they're going to need to have a vice president that they rely on much more. 


 Because of what I learned and was forced to realize. Think of a major mistake. Contemplating running as a Democrat in my very first... 

(LAUGHTER)

(APPLAUSE)


 Well, Carl, you've been dividing the party for the last 10 minutes, so let me -- let me say something that I think unites them. 

This is a historic venue.

(APPLAUSE)

You know, 300 miles off this coast is a place where another party, once a
great party, the Democrat Party, lost its identity. And that's when, in 1961,
the Cuban freedom fighters were struggling with a toehold on the beach, trying
to take back Cuba from Castro and a Democrat president with an aircraft
carrier sitting a few miles offshore said we will not help the freedom
fighters.

And a thousand miles away from there is El Salvador, where a Republican
president, Ronald Reagan, hung tough, brought freedom to El Salvador.


 And you know something? Today, they are fighting side by side with our guys in Iraq. 

(APPLAUSE)

We're the party of freedom.

(APPLAUSE)


 Yes. Wendell, I think the governor's plan goes in exactly the wrong direction, because while it allows for private health insurance, it has lots of mandates. 

He has a good piece of those 1,000 or so mandates that drive up the cost of
health care. That means that every single plan in the governor's state has to
have certain things.


 It's got to have, for example, fertility coverage. Well, what if you're 90 years old? We may appreciate Governor Romney's optimism... 

(LAUGHTER)

... but you may not need fertility coverage.

Those 1,000 mandates that we have throughout the States, where we do have
mandated health insurance plans, is driving up the cost of health care by
about 35 percent. We need freedom. We need to allow people to buy their health
care across state lines. That will bring down the cost of health care.

(APPLAUSE)


 Yes. Cooper, a great debate. It's nice to listen to lots of statements about what the other candidates will do with respect to the borders.

I built that border fence in San Diego and it does work. It's a ...

(Applause)

You know, we built a double fence. We had the number one smuggler's corridor
in America with most of the illegal aliens and most of the drugs that came
into the entire country coming in through that number one corridor between
Tijuana, Mexico, and San Diego, California.

We built the double-border fence with a road in between, and we reduced the
smuggling of people and drugs by more than 90 percent. And as a result of
that, the crime rate...

(Applause)

... the crime rate in the city of San Diego went down by 53 percent by FBI
statistic. And as a result of that, I wrote the law that the president signed
last October 26, incidentally, passed the Senate 80-19, that mandates 854
miles of double-border fence across Arizona, New Mexico and Texas.

Now, the administration has $800 million on hand right now, cash on hand. They
haven't built a linear inch of that fence in Texas.

As president of the United States, I would bill the double-border fence, all
854 miles, in six months.


 That is my commitment.

(Applause)


 You know, I came in with Ronald Reagan in 1980 to cut taxes, and I probably voted for more tax cuts than anybody here.

But you could have an emergency, a time of war, and I think it would be wrong
to say, "Absolutely, I would pledge to Grover Norquist that I would never
raise taxes." Could have a national emergency.


 China is cheating on trade, and they're using that $200 billion trade deficit over the United States to buy ships, planes and missiles. They are clearly arming.

And it's in the interest of the United States...

(Applause)

... to stop China's cheating. My bill, incidentally, that's up right now would
do that.

But what we all ought to do in this Christmas season, with about a month to go
before Christmas is buy American.

That might hire the young person. That'll result in a...

(Applause)

You know, that just might keep your neighbor from losing his job, and it might
help that young person coming back from Iraq and Afghanistan in uniform to
have a job when they get back.

Let's buy American this Christmas season.


 Well, first I've got to inform Jay that as a guy who got his first hunting license at the age of 10 and really believes in the right to keep and bear arms, and used them in the military, as my son did in Fallujah, you should never throw a gun to a person. He should have taken that gun handed-off from his fellow hunter. So you have to be safe with guns, Jay.

But the right to keep and bear arms is an important element of community
security, home security, and national security. I think it is a tradition of
the American soldier.

From Bunker Hill to New Orleans to the rooftops of Fallujah, the right to keep
and bear arms and use them effectively is an important part of America's
security. And I will strongly enforce the Second Amendment as president of the
United States.


 I have an old 20-gauge L.C. Smith that is just like the gun that my dad used to carry when I would walk behind him as a 9- year-old kid and pick up the shells when he was hunting quail. I finally got a chance to buy one of those a few years ago, the same gun that he had had and given to me when I was nine or ten year old when I bought my first hunting license.

The right to keep and bear arms in the Second Amendment is a large part
protection. It is also a large part family tradition.


 Cooper, Cooper, very simply, to the critics of America I would say this. When you were faced with disease and starvation, the Americans brought food and medicine. When you had earthquakes and tsunamis and floods, the Americans came and helped you. And when you were threatened from outside, the Americans left the safety of their own homes to come and defend you.

I will never apologize for the United States of America.

(Applause)


 I'm Duncan Hunter, and I approved this message.

(End video clip)

(Commercial break)

(Begin videotape)


 General, thanks for your service, but I believe in what Colin Powell said when he said that having openly homosexual people serving in the ranks would be bad for unit cohesion.

The reason for that, even though people point to the Israelis and point to the
Brits and point to other people as having homosexuals serve, is that most
Americans, most kids who leave that breakfast table and go out and serve in
the military and make that corporate decision with their family, most of them
are conservatives.

They have conservative values, and they have Judeo-Christian values. To force
those people to work in a small tight unit with somebody who is openly
homosexual goes against what they believe to be their principles, and it is
their principles, is I think a disservice to them. I agree with Colin Powell
that it would be bad for unit cohesion.


 There are two debts to the national security. One is the budget deficit, which is going to be about $161 billion this year. But the real deficit, the real loss that we have right now that is a threat to national security is a trade loss. The trade loss this year is going to be $800 billion. It's going to be $200 billion to communist China, which is rapidly becoming our banker. And there's an old saying you don't want to have a banker that doesn't have your best interests at heart. We should level the playing field. We should stop China from cheating on trade. We should bring back a lot of those high-paying manufacturing jobs to this country that we pushed offshore. That means bigger paychecks. That means more money going into the federal treasury and to Social Security and to Medicare. Eliminate those twin deficits, and we'll be on the right track.


 The tax that we're all paying that doesn't help anything, it doesn't go to defense, it doesn't go to roads, it doesn't go to medical care, is a $250 billion plus that we pay each year not to the federal government to the treasury, but to prepare our taxes, defend our taxes, and for the massive cost of the IRS. That's all overhead, $250 billion-plus dollars. What we ought to do is have a system, the fair-tax system is a good one, or a flatter tax or simpler tax because that young couple that pays $1,450 in taxes may pay $450 to their tax preparer. That's a second tax.


 I stand for a strong national defense, enforceable borders, and bringing back high-paying manufacturing jobs to this country, that we've pushed offshore with bad trade deals. I've been a member of the Armed Services Committee for 26 years now, and I've chaired that committee for four years, and I'm one of the few guys up here who's worn the uniform of the United States. And my own son has done, now, three tours in the Middle East, coming back on Thanksgiving. I know what it takes to secure this country. I also built that border fence in San Diego that worked so well, and I wrote the law that takes it across Arizona, New Mexico and Texas. And as President, I will finish that border fence in six months.


 Absolutely, you know, we had a $3 billion trade surplus with Mexico when we passed NAFTA, and the advocates said we're going to build on that surplus. Today we have a massive trade loss. We went immediately to a $15 billion trade loss. We had that now for the last many years. Let me tell you, if you take your product made in Iowa down to the Mexican border right now, you will pay a 15-percent tariff, which they moved into place after we passed NAFTA. You know, trade deals are business deals between nations. And we haven't made good business deals between nations, and NAFTA is a bad business deal.


 He said contributing but not totally – 

Yeah.

Okay.

(Laughter)


 You know, I say instead of mandates, incentives. The problem with mandating only biofuels, and, you know, ethanol's not the greatest thing in show business. You use a lot of energy to create ethanol, and there's other biofuels out there, biodiesel, etc. But by giving incentives in R and D and by bringing our government laboratories together with business, with our educational institutions, the United States can become the center with a grand new industry of energy innovation. We can be the leaders in the world in this. But you don't want to push away things like hydrogen, fuel cells, and other things. Incentives is the way to go, and we should take the entire array of alternative energy sources and give incentives to private enterprise to get involved and get into the business of delivering us a great product. And we can produce a great new industry for this next generation.


 Three words. A math teacher in the barrio of Los Angeles taught young kids calculus. He taught them so well that the school district called up and said, “We think your kids are cheating on the test.” And he said, “test them again.” And he established this incredible system of calculus in the school district by inspiring young people. How many of us in our careers can point back to a teacher and say that teacher inspired me? What we have to do is take away the bureaucratic credentialing of teachers and allow people who are aerospace engineers and pilots and scientists and retired folks to come in and inspire young people in third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth grades. Let's inspire them to reach for the stars and given them the incentive to work hard enough to get there. Inspiration, changing the credentialing system and school choice.


 And you know why? The post mortum on --- the unions ran him out of the school district, and I think that goes right to one of the big problems that we have.


 First you've got to strengthen the U.S. military. We have to look at the horizon past Iraq and Afghanistan and see the emergence of North Korea with nuclear capability, Iran proceeding on that path despite what the NIE says, and also the emergence of communist China as a new superpower stepping into the shoes of the Soviet Union. So strengthening the military and meeting those horizon threats and also strengthening our border, enforcing the U.S. border. That means building the border fence and making sure we know who's coming into this country, what they're bringing with them. Lastly, bringing back the industrial base of the United States that right now is fragmenting and being sent off to China and to other places around the world, which also is a security threat, bringing back high-paying manufacturing jobs to this country that will serve this next generation well.


 Legislation is a function of compromise. When you put together a budget, for example, a budget to increase defense spending, and that budget which increases defense spending may have – may have also pork barrel programs that you don't like and you've promised your constituents you'll fight against pork barrel programs. In the end, if you vote for the budget of the United States, you vote for a lot of things.


 Repeat the question. I was lost in Governor Romney's explanation. I thought it was quite good though.

(Laughter)


 I think they both go to the core of this country because you have to keep the economy running, you have to keep the wheels turning. And of course the heart of our country is this idea that human beings have value, that they are given these inalienable rights that have been described by my friends. So those are two very important things. But one thing that's extremely important that Governor Romney didn't touch on was this. We also, in being conservative, having a conservative leader, part of that means not sending technology to our adversaries. And that's going to be the big threat of this next 15-20 years. Governor Romney's corporation that he founded, the Bain Capital Corporation, has joined up –


 \-- has joined us with a Chinese corporation to buy an American defense contract.


 I think that is a mistake. And that's a defense contractor that did business with Saddam Hussein and with the Taliban –


 So that, I think, is a very important part of conservative leadership. And thank you.


 Yeah, to all my colleagues and, I think, to the American people, we've got lots of folks coming back from the Afghan and Iraqi theaters, lots of young people who need jobs. One thing we could do here just a couple of weeks before Christmas is buy American goods. If we buy American gods, we may save the job of our neighbor or provide a job for that young service person. 

 Well, Chris, because the Iraqi forces that were running a couple of years ago in places like Fallujah are standing and fighting. We've got to get all 129 Iraqi battalions into a three- or four-month military operation -- most of them have been in there by now -- and then we rotate them into the battlefield and we rotate out the American heavy combat forces. 

But you've hit the nail on the head. One of us is going to be a commander in
chief in a few months with a tough military operation and situation to deal
with. I've been the chairman of the Armed Services Committee for the last four
years. I served in uniform in Vietnam -- didn't do anything special, but I
served. My son has done two tours in Iraq. I can look at the American people
and say, we are in this together, and I think the other guys ought to lay out
their credentials to be commander in chief.


 Yeah, very simple. China is cheating on trade. They devalue their currency by 40 percent. 

That undercuts the American markets, wipes American products off the shelf not
only here but around the world. And the latest study I've seen shows that
we've lost 1.8 million jobs in the United States, high-paying manufacturing
jobs, to China, 27,000 jobs lost in South Carolina alone. I would enforce the
law with China, the trade rules with China.

And the other thing I would do is, I would zero the manufacturing tax on
American manufacturers. Our guys are down right now. They've been buffetted by
these unfair trade practices. Let's bring back the American industrial base,
and that's important for national security as well.

That means we'll be able to have -- you know, I sent out my teams a couple
years ago when our guys were getting hurt by roadside bombs. We found only one
company left in America that could still make high- grade armor steel plate.
The arsenal of democracy is leaving these shores. We need to bring it back.
I'll do that.


 Yeah, and I want to get into this, Chris, because you know, I built the border fence in San Diego. When I built that fence, we had massive illegal immigration across the border. We built the border fence; we reduced illegal immigration and smuggling of narcotics by more than 90 percent. And the crime rate in the city of San Diego fell by 50 percent. 

I wrote the bill that the president signed in October that takes the San Diego
fence 854 miles across Arizona, New Mexico and Texas, and it's mandatory. I
called up the other day, and they've done two miles of border fence.

This administration has a case of the slows on border enforcement. If we have
border enforcement, we will be able at that point to start to regulate the
internal problem that we've got. Because as long as you've got a revolving
door and you have no border -- and this 2,000-mile porous border,
incidentally, is our biggest homeland security problem; it's not just an
immigration problem, it's a homeland security problem -- we need to build the
border fence. We need to have a Border Patrol which is big enough to get the
job done, and we need to be able to ask people when they want to come into
America, knock on the front door, because the back door is going to be closed.


 Yeah, let me just say this would take a one-minute conversation with the secretary of Defense. (Laughter.) I would call him up or call him in. I would say to SECDEF, in terms of getting information that would save American lives, even if it involves very high-pressure techniques, one sentence: Get the information. Have it back within an hour, and let's act on it. Let's execute with Special Operations or whoever else is necessary, and I will take full responsibility. Get the information. 


 Well, Wendell, if we don't do anything about it, it will be a security threat. And the other thing that will be a security threat is the fact that China is buying ships and planes and military equipment with hundreds of billions of American trade dollars coming their way. They've bought the Sovremenny class missile destroyers from the Russians that were designed to do one thing: Kill American aircraft carriers. So there is a security threat as we move -- as we allow China to continue to cheat on trade, they are arming with American trade dollars, and they're lending our money back to us. And some people say well, they'll treat us right if we get in a crunch. And I say, yeah, just like they treated that guy in front of the tank at Tiananmen Square. 

It's time for us to enforce trade rules with China, create a two- way street,
not a one-way street, and that will give us much less exposure on the economic
side that you're talking about, and the security side.


 I'm Duncan Hunter, four years chairman of the Armed Services Committee and in Congress 26 years. And I stand for a strong national defense, an enforceable border, bringing back American jobs. 


 Well, Wolf, you know, I read that NIE report, and I held the briefings before we made the vote to go in. I'd invited everybody, Democrat and Republican, to get the classified information. 

And this depends - the turnover of the security apparatus depends on one thing
- reliable Iraqi forces. You got 129 Iraq battalions; we've trained them up.
We've got a lot of them in the fight. Over the next three to four months, we
need to get them all in the fight, get them that combat capability. When
they're combat- hardened, we rotate them in, we displace American heavy combat
forces off that battlefield, and Americans come home.

And, Wolf -


 \- I can tell you, as the chairman of the Armed Services Committee for the last four years, I have the credentials to leave Iraq the right way. 


 With two conditions, and I think that you do have a dialogue with everybody, whether they're adversaries or friends. The two conditions are: number one, they are moving deadly equipment across the border that is killing Americans in Iraq. We have license to utilize anything that we want to use - special operations, intelligence, whatever it takes - to stop that deadly equipment from moving across the border and hitting Americans in Iraq, and we don't give that up with these talks. 

Secondly, they've got about a thousand centrifuges now working, enriching the
materials that can make at some point a nuclear device. The United States
reserves the right to preempt, and we may have to preempt that nuclear weapons
program. We cannot allow them to have a nuclear device.

With those two caveats, talk to your enemies.


 I would authorize the use of tactical nuclear weapons if there was no other way to preempt those particular centrifuges. When the Osirak reactor that was hit `86, when the six F-18s came over the horizon and knocked that out, they didn't need anything but conventional weapons. Probably it's going to take a little more than that. I don't think it's going to take tactical nukes. 


 Well, first, I disagree with that premise, because when they made the sweep on the Swift plants - those were the meat packaging plants in Iowa - took out some 850 people who were working there illegally several months ago, there were American citizens lined up the next day to get their jobs back at 18 bucks an hour. 

Now - and let me tell you, this is a disastrous bill. And if John McCain is
right in saying that this is a national security issue - and it is, border
enforcement - then the Hunter bill, which was signed by the president on the
26th of October, mandating 854 miles of double fence - not that scraggly
little fence you show on CNN all the time, Wolf, that people get across so
easily - if they get across my fence, we sign them up for the Olympics
immediately. (Laughter.) We've got a big fence.

But 854 miles of double border fence was mandated to be constructed. Homeland
Security has a billion bucks, cash on hand. It's been six months, and they've
done 11 miles.

So administration has a case of the slows. And I think they slowed the fence
down so that they could come out with the amnesty at the same time, put the
two together, and the Bush-McCain-Kennedy bill would then be accepted by
conservatives and liberals alike.


 It's a bad bill. 


 Wolf, can I speak - 


 Wolf. (Off mike) - 


 \- in my district. Can I speak up also? 


 You know, I think, Wolf, to make a determination on that, you'd have to look at the transcript. I'll tell you a couple transcripts I have looked it, and that's the agents, Compean and Ramos, who were given 11 and 12 years respectively for stopping a drug dealer bringing 750 pounds of drugs across the border. I've looked at their transcript; I would pardon Compean and Ramos right now. 

And let me say - (interrupted by applause) - and let me say with respect to
what Mike said, we got to bring back the Reagan Democrats to this party
because we need the Reagan Democrats, Republican leadership to work, and we're
going to have to get a good trade bill that brings jobs back to this country.

We're going to have to stop China from cheating on trade. Build the middle
class, build jobs, Wolf. That's what strengthens the Republican Party.


 No, not without reading the transcript. 


 Okay, absolutely. The key to leaving - and incidentally, thank you for his service. And I want to let you know - (interrupted by applause). I want you to know that my son, Duncan, the day after 9/11, joined the Marine Corps; quit his job, did two tours in Iraq. He's in Afghanistan right now. 

First, I want you to know that it's worth it. (Applause.) What he did was
worth it. And if we can achieve a country in Iraq that will not be a state
sponsor of terrorism for the next five, to 10 to 20 years; that will be a
friend, not an enemy of the United States; that will have a modicum of
freedom, that is in the national interest of the United States, just like
establishing a free Japan on the other side of the Pacific was in our interest
after World War II, just like providing freedom and a protective shield for
Salvador in Central America was in our interest.

So what I would do and what we need to do right now and we are doing is
standing up the Iraqi army. There's 129 battalions of Iraqis that we've
trained and equipped. We need to start moving them into the combat zones,
where they displace the heavy American combat forces. Then we can pull our
forces out, we can bring them home -


 \- or send them wherever Uncle Sam needs them again. 


 That's how we leave Iraq the right way. 


 And Wolf, the fabulous Grampy (sp), my father-in- law, who lives with us, is one of those people that trots down and goes through the border at Yuma and does that. So lots of Americans do that. But here's what happens. Eighty percent of the new drugs and new inventions that save our lives, that help preserve the lives of the relatives of everyone who's in this particular room right now, 80 percent of those inventions are made in the United States because we have free enterprise, where people can go out, invest, and maybe they drill three dry holes in trying to produce a good drug that will save somebody's life, then maybe they hit the jackpot and they produce something that will save people and help their health. They then recover their money in the United States, and what they have left over in terms of market, they put into the Third World. But Third World countries like Mexico could never provide the amount of money that it takes to make those inventions. Otherwise, they would. 

Here's what we have to do. we need o be able to buy our health care insurance
across state lines, Wolf. Right now the same single policy that can be
purchased in Long Beach for $73 costs $334 in New Jersey. The states lock up
the insurance industry. They won't let Americans buy across state lines just
like they do everything else. If we're able to do that, we're going to bring
down the cost of health insurance.


 And Wolf, the fabulous Grampy, my father-in-law, who lives with us, is one of those people that trots down and goes through the border at Yuma and does that. So lots of Americans do that. 

But here's what happens. Eighty percent of the new drugs and new inventions
that save our lives, that help preserve the lives of the relatives of everyone
who's in this particular room right now, 80 percent of those inventions are
made in the United States because we have free enterprise, where people can go
out, invest, and maybe they drill three dry holes in trying to produce a good
drug that will save somebody's life, then maybe they hit the jackpot and they
produce something that will save people and help their health.

They then recover their money in the United States, and what they have left
over in terms of market, they put into the Third World. But Third World
countries like Mexico could never provide the amount of money that it takes to
make those inventions. Otherwise, they would.

Here's what we have to do. We need to be able to buy our health care insurance
across state lines, Wolf. Right now the same single policy that can be
purchased in Long Beach for $73 costs $334 in New Jersey. The states lock up
the insurance industry. They won't let Americans buy across state lines just
like they do everything else. If we're able to do that, we're going to bring
down the cost of health insurance.


 You know, Wolf, when my son returned from Fallujah, he wrote these words, he said, "Families lift our nation up. They provide us with fidelity, morality, faith in God, and raising the next generation of Americans." 

The Republican party has to reunite with the American family and pass policies
that are constant with the American family, then we'll be a great party again.


 No. (Laughter.) And let me just say, you know, I look at Governor Romney, Mayor Giuliani, my good friend John McCain. Governor Romney joined with Bill Clinton for the 1994 gun ban when I was fighting that. Mayor Giuliani stood with him at the White House on that. Governor Romney has passed what I consider to be a major step toward socialism with respect to his mandated health care bill. John McCain is standing strong with Ted Kennedy on this Kennedy- McCain-Bush border enforcement bill. 

I think the guy who's got the most influence right here with these three
gentlemen is Ted Kennedy. And I think we need to move away from the Kennedy
Wing of the Republican Party. (Applause.)


 Here's what we tell 'em, Chris: It's the law. And you know, I built that border fence in San Diego that -- and it's really two fences. It's a double fence. And incidentally, since this is Fox, it's not that scraggly little fence that they keep showing on CNN with people hopping over it. (Laughter.) If you get over my fence, we sign you up for the Olympics immediately. (Laughter.) 

Now, that fence is a double fence with a road in between, and it reduced the
smuggling of people and drugs in San Diego -- coming across the border into
San Diego, which was the number one smuggler's corridor in America -- by 90
percent. And that's the reason I wrote the law that extends it 854 miles
across Arizona, New Mexico and Texas.

It's now the law that that fence be built. The president signed the bill
October 26th. They've only done 17.9 miles. As president, I'll complete all
854 miles in six months. That's my commitment. I'm going to build the fence;
it's the law. (Applause.)


 Yeah, I think he should, and I think he ought to stick with this -- with the commitment that he made. And you know, that's one thing about our party: When our guys have problems like this, they leave -- they leave the Senate or they leave the House. When the Democrats have problems like this, they often make them chairman of -- of their respective committees. (Cheers, applause.) 

And Wendell, let me be -- let me just give you -- you know, these presidential
debates help to define our party.

You know, my model is my dad, who left the Marines after World War II, came
back, worked for a year as a volunteer for the Republican Party, never asked
for a job, never asked for a position, but only wanted to help our country,
and asked me every day while he was alive, what'd you do for America today?
That's my model of a Republican. (Applause.)


 Hallelujah. (Laughter.) 


 Wendell, I -- first, let's remember that we've got troops -- those 157,000 folks in Iraq, lots of them in Afghanistan are watching us tonight, and let me just tell you what they've done. 

In Anbar province, we were having 1,350 attacks a month last October. By the
blood, sweat and tears of the U.S. Marines out there, we've pulled it down 80
percent. They've pulled down civilian casualties 74 percent. (Applause.) And I
-- I shouldn't let this one go, because the Democrats made an entire debate in
never complementing what the troops have done. This is how we do it.

We've got 129 battalions in the Iraqi army that we're training up. We're
training them up, we are getting them into the fight. When those Iraqi
battalions are battle-hardened and they start to rotate into the positions on
the battlefield, displacing American forces, the American forces can then
rotate out, come back to the U.S. or go to other places in Central Command.

That's the right way to win; it's called victory. That's how we leave Iraq.
(Cheers, applause.)


 What's that? 


 Well, let me -- let me tell you, right now we've seen an 80 percent depression in the attacks in Anbar province, those tough towns of Fallujah and Ramadi -- which were incidentally the toughest, most difficult towns, where gun battles were being waged daily. We've now knocked that down 80 percent. And my answer is, if you think we're going to be there for a long time, you don't understand the determination of the U.S. Marines and the U.S. Army. (Cheers, applause.) We're going to turn it over. 


 Yeah. 


 Well, absolutely, and let me tell you. The proof of that is the fact that we have conducted these combatant review tribunals, and we've actually sent back to the battlefield or sent back to Afghanistan some of the people that we thought were no longer a threat. Some of those people have shown up on the battlefield, bearing arms against our soldiers and sailors and airmen and Marines, back on the battlefield after we sent them back. 

If anything, we've been too liberal with the release of terrorists, and let me
tell you. You've got guys like Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, who said that he
planned the attack on 9/11. You've got Osama bin Laden's bodyguards.

Those guys get taxpayer-paid-for prayer rugs. They have prayer five times a
day. They've all gained weight. The last time I looked at the menu, they had
honey-glazed chicken and rice pilaf on Friday. That's how we treat the
terrorists.

They've got health care that's better than most HMOs, and they've got
something else that no Democrat politician in America has. They live in a
place called Guantanamo where not one person has ever been murdered. And
there's not one politician, one Democrat politician in America, that can say
that about one of the prisons in his home district.

We got to keep Guantanamo open. (Cheers, applause.)


 Yeah, well I hate to answer a hypothetical, and I think you don't want a president who's going to answer this question in 60 seconds, but here's a few considerations. 

First, you have the need to use precision systems, precision, very accurate
weapons, some of them with earth-penetrating capability. You need to be able
to isolate, if you have to strike. And if you get close to a 90 percent
refinement of weapons-grade fuel, uranium, at that point, the danger is if you
don't eliminate it then it could be passed to a terrorist group or to another
nation, which at some point might make a nuclear device.

So you have to isolate -- the reaction force would be coming obviously from
the Iraqi side, and you would look probably at the pattern of what the
Israelis did with the Osirak reactor that Saddam Hussein built back in the
1980s, when eight F-16s came over the horizon and took care of that problem. I
would say this: You can't allow them to have a nuclear device. You would have
to obviously work very closely with all allies -- not just the Israelis, but
hopefully have help from Europe -- (bell rings) -- help from the Brits, help
from the Aussies. And my answer would be that you would have to ensure that
they had no nuclear device in the end of the operation --


 \-- and had no material, no weapons-grade material at the end. 


 And that would ultimately require some ground forces to do a battle-damage assessment after a strike. 


 Thank you, Tavis. 

You know, when we have family reunions and some of the family members don't
show up, we do talk about them.

But I'm not going to do that.

You know, tonight we have about 160,000 Americans in Iraq -- in a war. We have
over 20,000 of our uniform personnel in Afghanistan. And I'm going to talk,
tonight, about how we leave Iraq in victory.

We have a border and we've got a big piece of this border, obviously, shown
right behind us here. We have a border which is on fire with massive amounts
of narcotics and people being smuggled across, illegally, as we stand here. I
want to talk about that.

But you know, most importantly, I want to do what my little grandson did when
he walked up to his first grade teacher about a month ago, stuck his hand out,
said, "My name is Duncan Hunter."

We call him "D-3."

And he said, "My grandpa's going to be president."

And then this little 6-year-old looked his teacher right in the eye and he
said, "Now, can I count on your vote?"

I'm coming here for your vote.


 Thank you, Tavis. 

What a wonderful question. And, you know, I think that we also have to add,
with Governor Huckabee's statement about Ike, that calm hand of Dwight
Eisenhower that brought about desegregation -- also, you know, in 1964, that
Civil Rights Act was passed with a greater proportion of Republican votes in
the United States Congress than Democrat votes, a fact that's been forgotten
over the years. I want you to remember that.

But, you know, I can't talk about young Black Americans, the need for them to
be shielded from pornography, which is certainly a need, without talking about
the need for all Americans to be shielded from pornography.

And in the barrio where I practiced law before I ran for Congress and got this
job, I remember Mr. Sanchez down the street with his family, working 18-hour
days, a need to have less regulation, less taxation. That would help all
Americans.

And I guess I would go with Jack Kemp's great statement: A rising tide lifts
all boats. A Republican administration, my administration, would lift all
boats.


 Thank you. 

You know, Republicans, when we had that great match up of a Republican
majority in Congress in the '90s and President Bill Clinton, the Republicans
initiated legislation three times to reform welfare.

The first two times, President Clinton vetoed it, and the third time he signed
it and took credit for it. It's something I've done every now and then in my
career.

When we did that, let me tell you what happened. The number of jobs of single
moms, the employment rate went up. Families did much better. You had the
average income go up in the communities where the welfare reform took place.
You had, according to HHS, 32 percent increase in employment in those jobs and
in those families which previously were on welfare. We did very, very well by
breaking this cycle of welfare.

But lastly, there is one party that is very important to jobs, jobs in the
community for everybody.


 That's the small businessman. If we help the small businessman, and that's a Republican trademark, we'll do it... 


 Thank you. 

Tavis, thank you.

Thank you, Ray.

Folks that are here illegally have to leave and let me tell you why. Today, if
you're a dry wall contractor and you play by the rules and you pay $27 a
loaded hour for each of your employees, you will be constantly under-cut by
contractors who use people who are here illegally.

That's not fair to Americans who play by the rules. And we just talked jobs a
few minutes ago. That's one reason you have, in certain areas, especially in
the construction trades now, higher levels of unemployment.

You have to build a border fence and you've got to have a real border, not
just for immigration issues, but also because of security issues.

And right now, I wrote the law that extends that border fence 854 miles across
Arizona, New Mexico, Texas, and California. We need to build the border fence.
It's the law.

And when people come to this country, they've got to knock on the front door,
because the back door's going to be closed.


 Thank you, Tavis. 

Juan, I don't know as much about the facts as you do in this particular case.
But the facts, related, that I read in "The Washington Post" was that the one
young man there was knocked unconscious and was kicked in the head while he
was unconscious.

And I would say this: This is the nation that has rules of law based on
accountability, and that that accountability should be followed. And I don't
know what particular divisions between juvenile and non-juvenile courts are
being made in this case, but there must be accountability.

If, in fact, the young man was kicked in the head while he was unconscious,
there has to be accountability for that. And that is clearly criminal
accountability.

Now let me go beyond that. You know, while we talk about this, we've got
hundreds of thousands of Americans from all groups and all ethnicities
depending on each other, saving each other's lives, every day being with each
other in this partnership that we call the U.S. military in Afghanistan and
Iraq.

We ought to learn from them. And we ought to find that common ground that's
allowed them to go forward together. That will make a great America.


 OK. Here's my answer. 


 I don't think there's any way you can be more fair then to have people in this country, under this wonderful Constitution that we put together, where people who are tried for criminal acts are tried by a jury of their peers. 

Juries, obviously, are blemished in many ways and are not perfect, but a jury
trial under the law is, I think, the best system of justice on the face of the
Earth.


 Well, thank you, Tavis. 

You know, I might be a little more open to statehood for D.C. if they would
allow their citizens to be able to keep and bear arms in their houses to
protect their safety.

And I offered that amendment a couple of years ago. It passed and when it
passed, the Democrats brought down the entire crime bill rather than let D.C.
residents have the right to keep and bear arms.

And on the issue of allowing -- mandating some type of ID, you know the first
21 Black congressmen were Republicans who came out of the South, and they went
into a series -- they went into a series of poll taxes and all types of deals
that the Democrats put in, road blocks the Democrats put in their place to
keep them from being able to vote.

So I don't agree with those types of stumbling blocks. But I would say this:
We have right now a real danger of people that are illegally in the country
being rounded up, herded into the polls -- we've seen that in California --
voting illegally. That disenfranchises everybody in that community.

I think you have to have some IDs.


 Well, Ray, the first thing I'd say is I can't -- as a guy who practiced law in the barrio and took lots of cases that anybody who couldn't pay didn't have to pay, as people came into my office, down there in the barrio in the waterfront in San Diego, I didn't separate them out. So I'm not going to separate them out now. And I'm going to talk about how I think we can have affordable health care. 

The first thing you've got to have is the ability to buy your health care
insurance across state lines. And right now, nobody in the United States can
do that.

And that means that the same policy that costs 70 bucks a month in Long Beach,
California, costs $343 a month in New Jersey, but the New Jersey policyholder
can't change policies and buy the policy in California. So we've got to change
that.

Secondly, I think we bring back the family doctor. And I think one way you
bring back the family doctor is by taking away massive malpractice burdens,
these massive insurance premiums that we place on people.

And finally -- finally, Ray, let's try a little freedom. How about if we said
in the tax code that if a doc will be a family doc, in the barrio, in the
community, and he will do office visits for 30 bucks or 40 bucks a visit, he
doesn't have to pay taxes on that, he doesn't have to have three accountants,
he doesn't have to do all those things?


 Bring back the family doctor. 


 Thank you, Tavis. 

Vernice, thank you for your two tours in Iraq. And I want to say I've got a
son who's done two tours as a Marine in Iraq.

He's getting to see a new country in Afghanistan right now. And who knows? You
may be there shortly.

Thanks for your service to our country.

Ladies and gentlemen, we can leave Iraq, and under my leadership, we will
leave Iraq in victory. And let me tell you what I would propose.

The key to handing off the security apparatus in Iraq, now that we've stood up
a free government -- and it is a free government. It's stumbling along, it's
inept, but it's a free government. The key to a security handoff is to have a
reliable Iraqi army.

Right now, we've got 131 battalions in the Iraqi army. We've trained them and
we've equipped them, and we are moving them into the battle.

And my recommendation to the president, the Joint Chiefs and General Petraeus
is to make sure that every one of those 131 battalions gets at least a three-
or four-month combat tour in a contentious area. When they are battle-
hardened, we can rotate them into the battle zone, rotate our America's heavy
forces, Marines and Army, and bring them home.

That's the right way to leave Iraq, in victory.


 The outside troops, U.N. and African Union, are not getting the job done because they're garrisoned far away from the villages that get hammered by the Janjaweed. 

By the time the damage has been done, the troops always get there late.

What we probably need to do is get a humanitarian corridor driven up through
that vast country, where we have armed convoys, U.N. convoys or African Union
convoys to get food and medicine to those people that need it most.

And lastly, teach those villages self-defense, because the troops aren't
getting there in time.


 I think there is a need for the death penalty. And it's called deterrence. And that means that, when that Charles Manson is getting rid to pull the trigger on an innocent American, just maybe the idea passes through his mind that he, himself, is going to lose his life. 

Now, that might only deter five percent, 10 percent, 15 percent, 20 percent.
It does deter some people. And for that reason, the death penalty, dealing
with some very rough, very ruthless people, is necessary.


 I think the population of the school should depend on the community that you live in. 

And it should be, in my mind, small schools, and they should be schools that
are close enough to mom and dad that you can get them down to the school when
the teacher needs them. It shouldn't be based on any forced mandate by
government, and I think it will work out a lot better that way.


 Well, actually, I'm a sponsor of the fair tax, but let me tell you, Chris, what is missing from this economy: 1.8 million jobs that have moved to communist China from the United States, including over 54,000 jobs from Michigan. 

You know, a couple of years ago when our guys were getting hurt with roadside
bombs in Iraq, I tried to find one steel company left in America that could
still make high-grade armor steel plate to put on the sides of our humvees to
protect against roadside bombs. I found one company left that could still do
that, and as you go down through the array of military systems that we need
for our security, we find that more and more of those have gone off-shore. So
this is also a security issue.

You know, in Willow Run just a couple of miles away, we made a bomber every 60
minutes during World War Two.

We've made tens of thousands of tanks in Michigan. Today we could not do that
because we've fractured the great industrial base of this country and we've
pushed it off-shore with bad trade deals.

And I would say to my colleagues, Senator Thompson, the other senators, you
all voted for most-favored-nation trading status for communist China. That set
the groundwork for 1.8 million high-paying manufacturing jobs moving off-
shore, going off-shore -- some of them never to return.

And what I would do is pass the Hunter-Ryan bill, which would put
countervailing duties on the Chinese when they cheat; they are cheating on
trade right now. I'd bring those jobs back home to the United States, and I
would connect up the middle class of America with the Republican Party one
more time. (Applause.)


 No, because I don't trust them. And I don't trust them because a few years ago Dubai, while an American Customs agent was trying to stop them, set for delivery a set of nuclear triggers to an anonymous recipient in Islamabad, probably for the A.Q. Khan network. That went directly against American interests. So I would not do that. 

And to all my colleagues who talk about the joy of free trade, that requires
one thing: good business deals. We've made the only business deal in the world
with 132 other competitors where they get to have a rebate on their taxes and
then put a block up of 15 to 20 percent tariff against our goods, and we don't
get to do the same thing. That's why we have a trade deficit with countries
that have higher labor rates than the United States.

So we're short on good businessmen, and I would junk those bad trade deals,
bring them back to the table, and I'd practice mirror trade. If a country
wants to put a 15 percent tariff against the United States, they're going to
see that reflected back at them. If they want to take it down to 1 percent,
we'll take it down to one, but there's not going to be a one-way street any
longer.


 Answer, Chris -- it depends on one thing: First, I think the president does not need that if the target is fleeting. We live in this age of terrorists with high technology, and if you have a very narrow window to hit a target, if the president's going to have to take that on his shoulders, he's going to have to do it. He has the right to do that under the Constitution as the commander in chief of the military forces. If he has time, then certainly you want to go to Congress, as we did in Iraq, and get the approval of Congress. So it's a matter of whether or not the target is fleeting. 

And with respect to Iran, Iran is walking down the path to build a nuclear
device. They've got now about a thousand centrifuges; they claim they've got
3,000. At some point, we may have to pre-empt that target. If we do, it should
be done hopefully with allies but perhaps by the U.S. alone.


 Yeah. Chris, you know, we've got -- American families have watched $75,000-a-year jobs being pushed offshore, $60,000-a-year jobs being pushed offshore. They understand that something's wrong. And we've talked a little bit about the -- about the deficit, about $160 billion this year. The trade deficit is $800 billion this year. 

And the one thing that we can do to restore confidence in the Republican Party
is to be good businessmen and good leaders. Let's get rid of the bad trade
deals, and let's bring them back to the table, our trading competitors, and
make deals that give our guys sitting there at the kitchen table --


 \-- with their families a fair shot at a good job, and give those small businesses that have been outdone by China's -- 


 \-- cheating on trade a good chance at winning for a change. 


 That's what we can do. 


 I can tell you a good union, the Steel Workers Union. When last year, Chris, we had a strike in a Kansas plant that made the tires for our humvees, I called up the president of the Steelworkers and the president of Goodyear, and within a very short period of time, they were working together, they got that thing done for the good of the country. 

A union is a receptacle of power, just like management. But those folks love
this country, they love their family, and they helped to build a middle class,
which has been important for America and for our party. We need to work with
unions to win this presidency.


 My mother is not an illegal immigrant. 


 Yeah, I would support the nominee of the party, but also work with whoever that nominee is to make sure that they understand that the Republican Party was built on a respect for human beings, and I think if we lose that respect and that protection for unborn human beings, then the party that Abraham Lincoln founded will be no more. (Applause.) 



