 Well, there was politics. All of a sudden, other states that had the similar devastation got better treatment, like Mississippi. This is what I would do. The response of our government to Katrina, before, during and after, was inexcusable. We have got to eliminate in the future any red tape that helps families -- that helps the devastation. Secondly, we have to let those that live there to come back first, instead of big moneyed interests. We have to stop the predatory lending of insurance companies, housing and many others that are ripping off the people. And then, finally, we have to make sure that a president cares -- and doesn't just pose for photo ops, but makes a difference and a commitment to rebuild that city and that region. 

(APPLAUSE)


 Well, I would say to the two young women, I would level with you -- I would do what is achievable. What I think is achievable is full civil unions with full marriage rights. I would also press for you a hate crimes act in the Congress. I would eliminate "don't ask/don't tell" in the military. 

(APPLAUSE)

If we're going to have in our military men and women that die for this
country, we shouldn't give them a lecture on their sexual orientation.


 I would push for domestic partnership laws, nondiscrimination in insurance and housing. I would also send a very strong message that, in my administration, I will not tolerate any discrimination on the basis of race, gender, or sexual orientation. 

(APPLAUSE)


 I was at that refugee camp. And there was a refugee, a woman who came up to me. She'd been raped, her husband had been killed and she said, "When is America going to start helping?" 

This is what I would do: It's diplomacy. It's getting U.N. peacekeeping troops
and not African Union troops. It's getting China to pressure Sudan. It's
getting the European Union to be part of economic sanctions in Sudan. It's
called leadership.

A no-fly zone, I believe, would be an option. But we have to be concerned
about humanitarian workers being hurt by planes, being shot.

The answer here is caring about Africa. The answer here is not just thinking
of our strategic interests as a country, as oil and Europe and the Middle
East. It should be Africa, Asia and Latin America, doing something about
poverty, about AIDS, about refugees, about those that have been left behind.
That's how we restore American leadership in this country.

(APPLAUSE)


 United Nations peacekeeping troops, and that would primarily be Muslim troops. We need a permanent U.N. peacekeeping force, stationed somewhere. 

If we get U.N. peacekeeping troops authorized for Darfur, there's some already
there, it'll take six months for them to get there. Genocide is continuing
there; 200,000 have died; close to 2 million refugees in that region.

America needs to respond with diplomacy, with diplomatic leadership.


 There's a big difference on Iraq between me and the senators, and here's where it is. 

The lives of our young troops are more important than George Bush's legacy.

This is what I stand for: I believe we should bring all the troops home by the
end of this year, in six months, with no residual forces -- no residual
forces.

(APPLAUSE)

This is critically important. A hundred American troops are dying every month.
And this war is a quagmire. It's endless.


 And the time has come to bring the troops home. No politics. 


 Get it done. 


 Well, I'm trying to provoke a debate here, because there's a difference between the senators and me on when we get our troops out. 

I've been very clear: Six month, but no residual forces.

Senator Clinton has a plan that I understand is maybe 50,000 residual forces.
Our troops have become targets. The diplomatic work...


 The diplomatic work cannot begin to heal Iraq, to protect our interests, without troops out. Our troops have become targets. You are going to say six months, because it might provoke a civil war. There is a civil war. There is sectarian conflict. 

(APPLAUSE)

The time has come, and I get challenged. I have no troops left. One hundred
are dying a month.


 I would scrap it. It doesn't work. 

(APPLAUSE)

It is the law. It is not just an unfunded mandate, but the one- size-fits-all
doesn't work.

It doesn't emphasize teacher training. It doesn't emphasize the disabled kids.

(APPLAUSE)

It doesn't -- English learning kids don't get help.

The worst thing it does is it takes districts and schools that are not doing
well, takes their funds away, penalizes them. If a school is not doing well,
we help that school.

(APPLAUSE)

The last thing we need to do, relating to teachers, is the key to a good
education in this country is a strong teacher. I would have a minimum wage for
all our teachers, $40,000 per year.

(APPLAUSE)

And I would emphasize science and math.(APPLAUSE)


 And I would also bring, to make sure our kids that are not scoring well in science and math, 29th in the world, to unlock those minds in science and math, I would have a major federal program of art in the schools... 

(APPLAUSE)

... music, dancing, sculpture, and the arts.

(APPLAUSE)


 Yesterday. 


 I, as president, I would push the whole country to verified paper trails. There are close to 10 states that do this. 

(APPLAUSE)

My state a year ago, my state was one of those states, along with Florida and
Ohio, that, because of the touch-tones, there was uncertainty about the
election.

We have close to 50 percent of those Americans eligible to vote voting. That
is inexcusable, compared to many other nations. We need to have same-day
registration. We need to have an effort to get the Republican Party to stop
suppressing minority voters. We need to find ways also to depoliticize the
Justice Department that tried to find those voters that were legitimately
voting.


 And lastly, a verifiable paper trail with optical scanners is going to improve turnout, democracy, and it's going to get a lot of young voters in the polls. 

(APPLAUSE)


 Yes, I would. 


 The best solution to those two issues is a bipartisan effort to fix it. 


 Medicare -- 33 percent of it is diabetes. Let's have major prevention programs, and also ways that we can ensure that we find a cure. 

(APPLAUSE)

Social Security -- stop raiding the Social Security trust fund.

Stop talking about privatization.

(APPLAUSE)

And then thirdly, let's look at a universal pension, 401(k) universal pension,
that would assure portability for those that want to keep their pensions as
they move into other professions.

But what we need is a bipartisan effort. Put this issue aside.

If I'm president, I would take this issue and I would say, Republicans,
Democrats, within a year, let's find a solution. No politics. This is the
safety net of this country.


 Yes, it would. It should cover everybody. 

(APPLAUSE)

In this country, no matter who you are, whether you're a ditch- digger, you're
a teacher, you're a CEO, you're a waiter, you're a maid, every American
deserves the right to the best possible quality health care.

(APPLAUSE)

That would be part of my plan. But also, it is prevention. It's starting early
with kids. It's having -- get rid of junk food in schools, as I did in New
Mexico...

(LAUGHTER)

.... a healthy breakfast for every child, mandatory phys ed, research into
Alzheimer's, into cancer, into stem cell.


 The issue here, I believe, is instant background checks. 


 Nobody who has a criminal background or is mentally ill should be able to get a weapon. That is the key, and that includes gun sales. That includes gun sales at gun shows. 

The key is going to be also attacking poverty, bringing people together,
dealing with those kids in the ghettos that are heavy users of gun violence
and they are victims of gun violence, to make sure that this country attacks
the core problems of poverty, having child care, bringing parents together.


 You know, let me just say, I love all of the candidates here. 


 In fact, I think they would all do great in the White House as my vice president. 

(LAUGHTER)

Let me say something about Joe Biden.

(APPLAUSE)

Joe Biden -- you know, the only negative thing about Joe. We disagree on Iraq
very strongly, on Darfur. But this man has devoted his whole life to public
service. He's been a distinguished chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee. He's had great contributions in civil rights, in issues relating to
gun control, in Supreme Court nominees. He will make an excellent secretary of
state for me.

(LAUGHTER)


 You know, I think that Senator Obama does represent change. Senator Clinton has experience. Change and experience: With me, you get both. 

(LAUGHTER)

(APPLAUSE)

And you know, my point -- and, here, we're going to need change to become
energy independent. We're going to need experience to deal with foreign
leaders, as I have.


 You know, it's interesting. You talk about the dispute between the two senators over dictators that -- should we; should we not meet? 

I've met them already, most of them. All my life I've been a diplomat, trying
to bring people together. This campaign is...


 You know, when a president talks about foreign policy, a president has to be clear. 


 And this talk about hypotheticals, I think, is what's gotten us in trouble. Here's what I would do on nuclear weapons: I wouldn't, as an American president, use nuclear weapons first. However, you can never take the military option off the table. 

The key is that in our foreign policy today, this administration has used the
military option preemption. It should be diplomacy first, negotiation, build
international support for our goals, find ways that America can get allies in
our fight against terrorism, against nuclear proliferation.

We should have a treaty on fissionable material, loose nuclear weapons --
that's even more dangerous today than nuclear weapons.


 No. I have a plan. Here's my plan: My plan is that, to end this war, we have to get all the troops out, all of them. Our kids are dying. Our troops have become targets. 

My plan has diplomacy, a tri-partite entity within Iraq, a reconciliation
among the three groups. I would have a division of oil revenues. I'd have an
all-Muslim peacekeeping force, headed by the United Nations, a donor
conference.

But none of this peace and peace building can begin until all of our troops
are out.

We have different positions here. I believe that if you leave any residual
forces, then none of the peace that we are trying to bring can happen. And
it's important.


 And it's critically important that we do this with an orderly timetable. But what is key is all of the troops out -- no residual forces. You leave residual forces behind, the peace cannot begin. 


 With all due respect, I'd like to ask Senator Clinton, Senator Biden, you're saying you're going to leave residual troops behind. I don't know, is it 25,000, 50,000, 75,000? 


 You're also saying, I think, Senator Clinton, that all combat troops should come out. Now, for the non-combat troops, how are they going to protect themselves? 

My point is that by taking them all out, all our troops are no longer targets.
And then Al Qaida and the insurgents, both that see American troops as their
prey, will now turn on each other.

And so, what we are now to do is force this negotiation, this reconciliation
process, which I believe Joe Biden's plan has potential, a possible partition.
Or division of oil revenues. An all-Muslim peacekeeping force. Get Turkey, get
Jordan, get Egypt. Talk to Iran and Syria. Bring them in.

What is needed here is stability, and I think that all of these countries can
be invested in a plan for stability. Nobody wants a civil war or a sectarian
conflict -- and by the way, it's already happening. And what we need is
stability.


 But you can't have stability without any American troop there. That's my point. So I'd like my question answered. What is the purpose of the residual force? 


 Joe, answer my question. 


 Why do you leave residual troops behind? Maybe if it's six months or eight months... 


 I pray. I'm a Roman Catholic. My sense of social justice, I believe, comes from being a Roman Catholic. 

But, in my judgment, prayer is personal. And how I pray and how any American
prays, for what reason, is their own decision. And it should be respected.

And so, in my view, I think it's important that we have faith, that we have
values, but if I'm president, I'm not going to wear my religion on my sleeve
and impose it on anybody.


 I want to find a way to make sure that the big agribusiness interests don't hurt the small farmer, the family farmer. 

What we also need to do is to promote conservation. We need to promote,
besides subsidy reform, renewable fuels and technology.

Our farm policy, if we have renewable fuel...


 ... enormous exports, trade, jobs. 


 You know, I think the question was about past regrets and mistakes. I'm making, at this rate, about one mistake a week. 

(LAUGHTER)

And, you know, I make a lot of misstatements. I'm not the scripted candidate.
But I think when the chips are down, when the time comes to get hostages out
from Saddam Hussein or persuade the North Koreans to reduce their nuclear
arsenal, or bring back the remains of American servicemen, I perform.

But the reality is, what the American people want is a president who says, "I
will follow the Constitution of the United States; I will not go to war unless
the Congress authorizes me to go to war."


 And we're going to get rid of those blemishes that America has, like Guantanamo, like eavesdropping on our citizens, like policies of torture, like returning habeas corpus. 

I think if we simply say that we are in an America of checks and balances,
where the judiciary and the executive and the legislative branches have an
equal role, that we're honoring the principles of freedom, where America
stands.

Then that's what that enormous confidence that people will have in our country
will come back.


 Well, you asked the question, are we for merit pay for teachers? No, I'm not for it. But what we need to do is pay our teachers better. They are disrespected. 

(APPLAUSE)


 I have proposed a minimum wage for our teachers, $40,000 per year. 

I also have a one-point plan, like I do on Iraq, on No Child Left Behind:
Scrap it. It's a mess; it's a disaster.

(APPLAUSE)

What I would also do is have -- you know, we are 29th in the world in math and
science. We need to have 100,000 new math and science teachers. We have to be
number one again.

I would have preschool for every child. I would have full-day kindergarten.
I'd revise our high school curriculums -- science, math, languages, civics,
and an arts-in-the-schools programs to unlock our kids...

(APPLAUSE)


 ... when they -- science and math... 

(APPLAUSE)


 This is the Katrina of the mortgage-lending industry. 


 The answer to your question is yes, there has to be more liquidity, more funds in the market. What we need is more transparency between those that are making this business happen. 

And what we also need to do is to not appoint officials that are in the
industry to regulate that specific industry. The mortgage industry, they've
become -- a lot of them -- a bunch of loan sharks.


 The decisive moment in my life was when my wife, Barbara, decided and agreed to marry me, because it was the best decision I ever made and, hopefully, she ever made. We've had 35 years of marriage. It has given me strength and has been an anchor in my life. 

A decisive moment for me to return to public life was 9/11. When it happened,
I wanted to get back in public life.

And I just want to make one -- I resent that...


 Well, I have a fundamental difference with Senator Obama, Senator Edwards and Senator Clinton. Here's my position. Their position basically is changing the mission. 

My position in bringing all troops out of Iraq is to end the war. The American
people want us to end this war. Our kids are dying -- the bloodiest last three
months -- and my position is this, that you cannot start the reconciliation of
Iraq, a political settlement, an all-Muslim peacekeeping force to deal with
security and boundaries and possibly this issue of a separation, which is a
plan that I do believe makes sense, until we get all our troops out, because
they have become targets.

And I also disagree with Senator Clinton. I don't believe the Congress has
done enough to end this war.

(Cross talk.)


 We have been able to move our troops within three months -- 240,000 -- in and out of Iraq through Kuwait. This is what I would do. I would bring them out through roads through Kuwait and through Turkey. It would take persuading Turkey. The issue is light equipment. I would leave some of the light equipment behind. 

But I believe what is fundamental here is that leaving any troop behind will
prevent us from moving forward to secure some kind of stability in the region.
I would invite Iran, I would invite Syria, and I would make sure that the
entire issue is also tied to stability in the Israeli-Palestinian issue.

You cannot deal with the Iraq issue alone. You have to deal with it with the
entire region.


 Yes. And this is what I would do. I would approach it through diplomacy. A fundamental goal of our foreign policy should be not to permit Iran to develop nuclear weapons. 

Another cornerstone of our foreign policy should be the strength and the
security of Israel. So you cannot deny a nation the right to legitimately
defend itself.

Now, my approach is different. By the way, talking about diplomacy, I've
talked to a lot of these bad guys already. So I would have a head start in
personal diplomacy. You have to approach Iran. First of all, you use
diplomacy. Then you use sanctions.

The problem that we have with Iran is that we don't build the international
support that is needed to put economic pressure on Iran.

And my point here is that Iran is susceptible to economic pressure. It can do
so through -- they import half of their foodstuffs, half of their gasoline.
They've got domestic unrest. I would not talk necessarily to Ahmadinejad. I
would talk to moderate clerics. I would talk to business leaders. But 40
percent of the Iranian people vote for moderate candidates for president. So
you first use diplomacy.

The problem, Tim, is, we can't build the international support with the
Europeans, with Russia that has leverage on Iran to effectively pressure them
not to build nuclear weapons and to stop messing around in Iran (sic).

But it's called diplomacy, it's called negotiation; it's called talking to
Iran and Syria and trying to work out differences.


 A fundamental tenet of American foreign policy is to support Israel, but Tim, you've got to bring diplomacy. The problem in the Middle East is there is no Middle East peace process. There are no -- there is no Middle East peace envoy. We don't talk to Syria. You've got Israel today less safe than it ever was. You've got Hamas on one side. You've got Hezbollah. You've got Iran wanting to build nuclear weapons. But you do it through diplomacy; you do it through a Middle East peace process. Get Lebanon involved, get Syria involved. The two-state solution. It's called diplomacy. 


 I've been in public life 25 years. And, you know, I may not be the perfect consultant, blow-dried candidate. I make mistakes. I admit them. 

But, you know, Tim, the issue is, do I deliver? I mean, your network covered
me five months ago when I brought back the remains of five of our -- remains
of Korean War soldiers. I also persuaded with others, the North Koreans, to
turn down their nuclear reactor.

As governor, today New Mexico's the sixth-fastest growing economy. I've
insured kids under 12. Those statistics were way before me, but today, we have
created a balanced budget. New Mexico is the clean energy state. No one ever
questioned me that I deliver when I brought back American hostages and
servicemen from Iraq, from Saddam Hussein, from the North Koreans, from
Darfur. I got a fragile cease-fire. I received four Nobel Peace Prize
nominations.

You know, sure, I've made mistakes, and I'm going to continue making them, I
can tell you right here.

But I also want you to know that the issue is, can you deliver? You asked
Senator Clinton. She's (a/the ?) candidate of experience. Senator Obama, a
fresh voice for change. With Bill Richardson, you get both, change AND
experience. (Laughter.) That's what I am conveying to the American people.

You got to be able to deliver. To bring change, you have to have the
experience to deliver that change. And my record in terms of foreign policy,
energy policy, what I've done for my state, I'm the only one who has
negotiated with a foreign country here, I believe I have the best of both to
be this president.


 No, you don't need to do that. That's a 15 percent tax on small businesses, on the middle class, on family farms. You don't need to do that. 

This is what you do.

One, you take privatization off the table. You don't want Social Security in
the stock market.

Two, you stop raiding the Social Security Trust Fund, as the Congress and the
president constantly do.


 No, no, Tim. No, you don't. 


 No, no, wait. What -- no, wait. Because I know -- 


 No, no, but what you do -- I am the only candidate here that has said, I'm for a constitutional amendment to balance the budget. You have to have fiscal discipline. You've got to also grow the economy. You have to have universal pensions. 

Here's -- you know, this estimate, and you've just talked about, it's based on
the growth of the economy, 1.3 percent. If it grows to 1.8, we don't have
this. And if we -- if we balance the budget, restore our fiscal house, there
will be economic growth. If we invest in education and have a stronger
workforce, if we incentivize and have a pro-growth economy, where we say we're
going to make America green, renewable energy, we're going to bring new jobs.
Together --


 Tim, I have said, I am for a constitutional amendment to balance the budget within five years. That is pain. You don't do it in a recession; you don't do it in a war. But if you also generate economic growth, this projection that you mentioned by the year 2041 is based on 1.3 economic growth. 

That is pathetic --


 \-- to grow the economy -- 


 I did it in New Mexico as a national law. 


 No, I wouldn't lower it. In fact, at this moment, my wife is hosting in New Mexico with the surgeon general a forum on underage drinking. 

I think what you need, though, is a dual approach. Yes, we need to have strong
law enforcement against DWI, against so many other law- related issues, but
you also have to have treatment. You have to have substance abuse treatment,
you have to education, you have to have rehabilitation, and the federal
government to the states is not providing the resources and the leadership
that we need. So just as much we don't lower the drinking age, you have to
have more of a national commitment to rehabilitation and to research.

We need to have more research for diabetes, for cancer, for stem cell
research, for heart disease. We're a nation -- let me just make one final
point.

We spend $6 billion on cancer research. That is two weeks of the Iraq war.
That shows the mistaken priorities that we have in this country.


 No, I wouldn't. Because I think, as president, I would commit myself, number one, that I will be a leader that prevents discrimination on the basis of race, gender and sexual orientation. I will also be a president that follows the Constitution of the United States. 

I will also be a president that will bring back habeas corpus and the rule of
law. I will also be a president that will shut down Guantanamo. I will also be
a president that will follow the Constitution and not permit torture as a tool
in our foreign policy. I will not eavesdrop on American citizens. And I will
not go to war, unless I get the consent of Congress.

And there are still basic differences on the war. My plans ends the war,
getting the troops out, and with all due respect to Senator Obama, Senator
Edwards, Senator Clinton, what I heard tonight is that even in their second
terms, they will not get the troops out. Therefore, the war will not end.


 No. I will do everything I can to fight terrorists. That's the main obligation of the American people. But that doesn't mean we become like terrorists and abridge our own freedoms. What the Bush administration has been using is called waterboarding. That is unacceptable not just with the Geneva Conventions, but in the spirit of our nation being a nation that respects human rights. That's not us. I would not permit it. 


 And, furthermore, I would not permit -- and here's another issue that I would like the Senate to take back -- the president of the United States has today unequaled authority to eavesdrop on American citizens, without a court order. The Congress needs to go back and rescind that. 


 That is another abridgement that needs to stop. 


 The Sermon on the Mount, because I believe it's an issue of social justice, equality, brotherly issues reflecting a nation that is deeply torn and needs to be heal and come together. 


 Red Sox, because Manny Ramirez is back. The Red Sox will win the penant and they will win the World Series. 

(APPLAUSE)


 That's what I would do as president. 


 Well, I think that two percent for the wealthiest Americans, that is unfair, unequal. That would go, in my objectives as president. 

I think we also, when we talk about balancing the budget -- I'd advocate a
constitutional amendment. Obviously, you can't do it in the time of war or
recession. You can't do it in the time of an emergency. I would exclude Social
Security.

But I think what is critically important is that when we talk about our most
urgent national priority, the war, we've spent $500 billion in this war. And
these are funds that could go to our domestic priorities -- to health care, to
kids, to education, to improving our schools, to rebounding, also, in terms of
our national spirit.

But fiscally responsible budgets, I believe, are critical for economic growth.
And we use the tax structure to incentivize the economy, to give preference to
solar, wind, and biomedical companies and aviation and companies of the
future.


 I would take those steps as president, along with improving our education system, too. That will make us more competitive. 


 Well, I detailed $57 billion in military reductions, which involve missile systems, procurement reform. 


 But we got to recognize that the Iraq war has drained our military. And what we need to do is we need a couple of more divisions in the Army, in the Marines. 

We've got to take care of our veterans. The V.A. system needs guaranteed
funding. Our veterans coming back with mental health problems, with trauma are
not properly being taken care of.

And we need to recruit and retain to keep the volunteer Army going. We need to
improve our readiness.


 We need to improve our equipment. 

So there are some military priorities that America and the next president has
to address.


 Well, for one, we should have a relationship that's based on a recognition that China is a strategic competitor. Our relationship with China today is clearly one-sided. 


 I'd be tougher with China when it comes to trade. I'd be tougher with China when it comes to human rights. They need to be doing a lot more on genocide in Darfur. They need to be doing more in Burma. They need to take steps where they protect their workers, where they have constitutional elections. 

Now, at the same time, we also have to make sure that China trades on an
equitable basis with the United States. We ought to ban all these toys they're
bringing in. We ought to ban some of the food -- the contaminated food they're
bringing in.

But we must recognize, too, that China's a major power, and we have to have an
important strategic relationship with them.

So what I would do is I would be stronger, as I said, with China when it comes
to human rights, when it comes to trade. I would tell them that they cannot
continue playing around with currencies, because they control a large part of
our debt. A large part of our $9 trillion debt is commercial banks in China.

It would be a stronger relationship with American leadership.


 I believe universal health care is a human right for every American. And one-third of all of our health care budget, $2.2 trillion -- one-third of that goes to administration and bureaucracy, failure to have electronic records. That has to shift to direct care. 

But prevention is going to be the key. You mentioned Medicare: 33 percent of
Medicare costs are, today, related to diabetes. We got to have an elimination,
as I did in New Mexico, of junk food in schools. We need to have mandatory
phys ed.


 We have to be a country that does research on stem cell research, on autism, on heart disease, on chronic diseases, on cancer. 

We spend $6 billion on cancer this year -- in one year. That's two weeks of
the Iraq war. That shows the misguided priorities that we have in this
country.


 Well, I believe that human rights is a fundamental tenet of American foreign policy and therefore trade policy. And I'm going to be very specific. 

What we need to do is impose trade sanctions when a country violates human
rights and doesn't hold elections, as we should be doing and we're doing in
Burma, as we're doing in Sudan, as we probably should consider doing with
China.

But also I think in any future trade agreement we've got to specify that every
nation that we trade with and have a trade agreement has to follow
international core labor standards: no child labor, no slave labor, the right
of freedom of assembly, collective bargaining, the opportunity to make sure
that there's job safety, that there's some kind of wage parity too, and also
environmental protection, air quality standards.


 This is what's important. These are our values. 

We have to transmit our democratic values of equality and freedom and human
rights when it comes to our trade policy, when it comes to our national
security policy, and when it comes with us doing business abroad, to promote
American trade and exports and get more jobs for our people.


 Well, I'm going to use my 30 seconds to thank the people of Iowa for putting us through this very good process of electing a president. 

(LAUGHTER)


 And I say that -- and I am going to focus on one issue, because I'm concerned about the fact that in the media and in the last debate, the Iraq war was not discussed. 

And somehow we're losing sight that that's the most important, fundamental
issue affecting our country, not just because we need to come together as a
country and this war has divided us enormously, but also because the key to
what we do and give health care a chance and education a chance and our kids a
chance and creating jobs a chance -- and 38 Americans died in November, our
troops.

We've got thousands -- over 60,000 -- with mental trauma and PTSD coming back.
And we have a V.A. system that is responding.

This is such an urgent, fundamental issue. And I can tell you, as I've gone to
every one of the 99 counties in Iowa, this is the number one issue affecting
not just this country, but Iowa caucus- goers.


 Well, I like to think that I've made my state a clean energy state. I was energy secretary. It's going to take an energy revolution. 

And I regret that, this morning, the U.S. Senate, despite the best efforts of
all here, killed an energy bill that would have given more tax credits and
incentives to renewable energy.

And I think this is tragic. I think fuel efficiency standards in this country
should be 50 miles per gallon, not 35. I think that's pathetic.

I think we need to have 30 percent renewable sources in all our electricity by
the year 2020.


 You asked about a year -- I think 2020. Reduce our consumption of oil by 50 percent by having flex-fuel vehicles -- 50 miles per gallon. 

Also we need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. And I would do so by 90
percent with a cap-and-trade program.

But, most importantly, it's going to take the American people. And it's going
to take a president on a bully pulpit asking the American people to sacrifice
a little bit, and I will. And that means being more sensitive to mass transit,
to appliances, to air conditioning, to the way we live.

And if we all do this without mandates, but we all do this, we can reduce our
dependence on foreign oil, which is enormously unhealthy. Sixty-five percent
of our oil is imported. We're paying close to $100 per -- to OPEC today.

This has to be an energy revolution led by a president.


 Well, I would make education one of the top priorities, if not the top priority, as president. 

And I would start early: preschool for every child under 4. You get the kids
before you're 4. Full-day kindergarten; that is desperately needed.

You talked about a timetable. I would say that within 15 years, America
becomes number one again in science and math in K-12. We're 29th in the world.


 I would hire 100,000 new science and math teachers. I would create science and math academies. I would revise and strengthen the high school curriculums, with local control. 

Here's my position on No Child Left Behind. I don't think you can reform it.
I'd scrap it. It's got to go. It's a burden on schools. It's an unfunded
mandate. It hurts all kinds of kids in achievement.

What else would I do? I would recognize that the key to our educational system
is a good teacher, and we disregard our teachers, we disrespect them, we don't
pay them enough. I'd have a minimum wage starting salary of $40,000.

And then, finally, I would have art in the schools as a way to stimulate kids
being stronger in science and math proficiency.

But if we're going to be competitive, if we're going to keep families
together, if we're going to be a society that values unity, education is the
key.


 Well, we've made enormous progress in my state. We were 49th in the world -- in the country in teacher salaries. We're 28th today. Educational achievement has increased. 

You know, one of the problems with No Child Left Behind in my state is that we
have 11 percent Native Americans, we have 42 percent Hispanic, very rural. And
so it's very hard for that achievement gap to be narrowed.

Teacher training has increased in my school, teacher performance. Testing has
dramatically improved. We've reduced the achievement gap.

I have to deal with this issue every day just like Governor Culver.


 I've dealt directly with some of these issues that affect our country. 


 The first year -- I'd end the war. All troops out within a year. No residual forces. A specific plan. 

I'd make a major effort to pass the first year, and I think we could --
universal health care will take two or three years to implement. I'd announce
an energy revolution, because I think this is one of the most urgent domestic
and national security priorities, to reduce our dependence on foreign oil.

And then what I would do is I would simply say to the American people, as your
president, I'm going to follow the Constitution of the United States. And that
means the bringing back habeas corpus, not using torture as a tool in our
foreign policy; rejoining the Geneva Conventions.


 That means, too, not eavesdropping on our own citizens. That means restoring ourselves as a nation that is going to respect the balance between the executive, the legislative, and the judicial branch; that we're going to be the conscience of the world, not... 


 ... the world's policeman. 


 And I will add that in 25 years in public service there are probably many more other mistakes that I've made. But I want to say to you that when it was with Wen Ho Lee, this was the issue of protecting our nuclear secrets. And he did plead guilty. 

I do feel that he was incarcerated in solitary confinement.


 This was wrong. I tried to change it. But I didn't work hard enough. 

The point is that we do have in all of our lives, as a congressman, as a U.N.
ambassador, as a candidate, I've made a lot of gaffes -- and I'm glad you
didn't raise them.

(LAUGHTER)

But, you know, I'll stand -- I'll stand behind my record as energy secretary.
I brought compensation to workers that had beryllium and other contamination.
I brought forth a renewable portfolio standard, the first one, that says
electricity has to be renewable in this country. We made air conditioning 30
percent more energy efficient.

There are some cases -- the Wen Ho Lee -- where I wish I'd been stronger. But
I don't apologize for trying to protect our nuclear secrets. And we should
have done a lot more.


 Well, my New Year's resolution is one that I have every year, and that's to lose weight, and I'm going to do it again. 

(LAUGHTER)


 But, you know, on a -- that's on a personal level. But, you know, I wish -- this is what I wish. I wish that the Congress and the president end their dysfunctional relationship and address the problems that affect this country -- health care, ending the war, torture, you know, energy. It just seems that everything they do, nothing ever happens. 

And my last request is that I continue to stay positive. I think that we
should, as Democratic candidates, stay positive, be optimistic, not tear each
other down.


 The American people want to see us together debating the major issues affecting the country. 


 Well, I've studied the history of the Iowa caucuses. What I like best about Iowans is you like underdog. 

(LAUGHTER)

And you like to shake things up. You don't like the national media and the
smarty pants set telling you who's going to be the next president.

(LAUGHTER)

And just -- I've been enormously enriched personally by my contact with
Iowans. You're tough, you scrutinize, you look into our eyes and our hearts,
you know the issues. And I've been privileged to be part of this process. Now
I hope you vote for me.




 I'm Bill Richardson, the proud governor of the state of New Mexico. 


 I've spent a lot of time in this region. I was U.N. ambassador; 80 percent of my time was spent on the Iraq issue. I talked to the leaders there, and there is a fundamental difference between my position and the position of my good friends here. I believe that it's a civil war. I believe that there is sectarian conflict already. There is enormous turmoil. Seven Americans died today. 

This is what I would do: I would have a resolution, under Article I, to
deauthorize the war, to move forward with a timetable -- the end of this
calendar year -- no residual --


 \-- no residual forces. 

I think there has to be pointed out a difference in our approach. Obviously
genocide is something -- in Darfur -- you know I have been involved in that
issue. I believe what we need to do there is stop this genocide. What don't we
care about --


 Well, obviously I would keep troops in Kuwait, where they are wanted. I would move them to Afghanistan to fight al Qaeda. But I believe that our troops have become a target. Our troops right now have done a magnificent job. And so what -- the difference between all of us here is this: all of these resolutions, the funding supplemental, appropriation on funding on issues relating to timetables is not working because the president is vetoing. 


 Let me finish. 


 I'm a border governor. Two years ago, I declared a border emergency because of the tremendous flow of drugs and illegal workers coming into my state. I deal with this issue every day. Here's my position: I would not support legislation that divided families. I would not support legislation that builds a wall, a Berlin-type wall between two countries, the way the bill in the Congress exists today. 

Now, what are the essential components of any good, sensible immigration bill?
One, increased border patrols -- double the size of border patrols and
technology. That makes sense. Don't reduce the National Guard that's there.

Secondly, an earned legalization program. Yes, I support that, one that is
based on learning English, paying back taxes, passing a background check,
getting behind those that are trying to get here legally, obeying laws and
bracing American values.

And then lastly, finding ways that we penalize employers that knowingly hire
illegal workers. That is essential in an immigration bill.


 It isn't an amnesty. 


 Because what this bill does is it sets standards, the standards that I mentioned -- learning English, passing background checks. There's a touchback provision -- the head of household has to go back and then apply. I believe that is unworkable, too. It divides up families. But you don't immediately get an amnesty, you don't immediately get citizenship; it's a process that takes about 13 years. 

Now, I commend the Congress for facing up to having a legalization plan. But I
will not support a bill -- our immigration laws in this country always bring
families together.

This separates families.


 There's also a provision -- this is important -- that involves guest workers. 


 They should have labor protections. 


 We don't want to create a permanent underclass in those workers. 


 Wolf? Wolf? 


 As governor of New Mexico, this is what we did: We insured every child under five. My wife, Barbara, who sits here, led an effort in the state to increase immunizations. 

We got rid of junk food in schools. We brought mandatory phys ed in.


 Yes, yes, you can. Here's how we do it. 


 Yes, this is how we do it. 

Number one, my plan is mandatory. You do have everybody sharing -- the
employer, the employee, you have the state and the federal government.

Secondly, I believe that we can have a plan where if you were satisfied with
your health care plan, you can keep it. No new bureaucracy. But addition to
that, you focus on prevention. You allow everybody to get the congressional
plan that every member here has.


 You bring Medicare 55 and over. 


 That's what you do. 


 There's -- there's another dimension to this -- 


 I love all this parsing and senatorial courtesy and "on the one hand, on the other hand." 

Here's what I would do. I would do what I did as governor of New Mexico. One,
I would move in the Congress for a hate crimes law. I would have domestic
partnerships. I would have civil unions. I would initiate laws that practice
non-discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation. I would get rid of
"don't ask, don't tell." I voted against it as a congressman.

A president has to show leadership --


 \-- and this country should not be asking a person who is giving up their life for this country in the military should not giving -- 


 \-- should not giving (sic) a lecture on sexual orientation. 


 Well, the ideal job for President Clinton would be secretary-general of the United States, but that's probably not doable. 

What I would do is, President Clinton gave me -- although, I don't think he's
very happy with me now -- President Clinton gave me two great jobs. He gave me
ambassador to the United Nations, secretary of Energy. I believe he is needed
in the Middle East. This administration has not had a Middle East peace envoy
as other bipartisan administrations have had. We have serious problems in the
Middle East. Our great ally, Israel, which I think needs buttressing, right
now is less safe than it was when President Bush came in. We need a constant
Middle East peace process. President Clinton gave me two good jobs, I want to
pay him back and make him Middle East peace envoy.


 Well, I was Energy secretary; in my state, we call it the Clean Energy State. We have incentives for solar, wind, biomass, biofuels. We require renewable technologies -- 20 percent of our electricity. 

Here's my answer. What would help in the short term -- give us, the states,
the authority to engage in serious price-gouging investigation. It just
doesn't happen. But this is not the answer.


 No, they're not. The answer is this: We need an Apollo program -- Apollo -- led by a president asking every American to sacrifice, to conserve, that would reduce our dependence on foreign oil, which is 65 percent imported, to 10. I have the most aggressive plan, according to the League of Conservation Voters. 


 It would go to 80 percent -- 80 percent reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by the year 2040. 


 But it takes an effort by every American. 


 Well, I disagree. Under my health care plan, if you have served this country -- enlisted, a veteran -- I would give you, under my health care plan -- your husband -- a hero's health card so that your husband could get health care anywhere they want, with any doctor, with any hospital. 

Our system right now -- our VA system is good, but we have to offer our
veterans that choice. Some have to go 150 miles, especially in rural areas.

I would also do something else in terms of veterans' health care. What we have
in our VA system is cost-of-living increases for other benefits but not for VA
health care, and today a lot of our vets coming back from Iraq and Afghanistan
-- PTSD, mental health -- we cannot do enough to help them.

And it's critically important that we have a well-funded VA system.


 As president, I would make sure that the VA health system is funded and we say thanks to those that have served our country. 


 At the U.N. 


 Could I respond? 


 Could I respond? 


 I was there. 


 No. What I would do is -- and I was there. I got a very fragile cease-fire put together there three months ago, and we made things a little better. I went with the Save Darfur Coalition. This is what I would do. 

Number one, more U.N. peacekeepers. The government is refusing to make this
happen.

Secondly, economic sanctions. We've imposed them, but they're weak. We need
European countries to make them happen.

Third, we need China -- to lean on China, which has enormous leverage over
Darfur. And if the Chinese don't want to do this, we say to them, maybe we
won't go to the Olympics.

And lastly, what we need is a country -- a foreign policy that cares about
Africa, that cares that 300,000 human beings have died, have been massacred,
that over 2 million have lost their homes. Gender-based violence, rape --
America should care about Africa, and we don't.


 Yes, I would, because China purchases a lot of their oil -- most of it, a good part of it -- from Sudan. And my view is that they are a leverage point, and they have not been strong on the Sudan. 

We don't need, Joe, with all due respect, another military involvement. Iraq
is enough, and we must get out of Iraq. What we need to do is move forward
with the toughest options. Am I for a no- fly zone? Yes. I think we need
strong economic sanctions. And we lack the moral authority to build
international coalitions to fight genocide in Darfur. We should shut down -- I
would, first day as president, I would shut down Guantanamo. I would shut down
Abu Ghraib and --


 \-- and secret prisons. That is the moral authority that we don't have. 


 Nobody's talked about your profession, education. I would upgrade our schools. I would have pre-school for every American, full-day kindergarten. I would pay our teachers what they deserve. I'd have a minimum wage for our teachers, $40,000. I did that in New Mexico; we went from 49th to 29th. I would bring science and math academies to get America more competitive. I would emphasize the arts. I would emphasize civics, again, science and math. 


 I would have universal education -- 


 \-- available for every American. 


 Leading on the issues of race is about being authentic, about speaking honestly. Race is a major issue in this country, and the next president has to talk about it. Race is not just passing new laws. Race is not just naming solid Supreme Court justices. Race is also dealing with bigotry and racism that exists in this country. 

And I believe very strongly that the next president is not just going to have
to pass laws and take the steps necessary to reaffirm affirmative action and
take steps to make sure that our schools are integrated, but also the next
president is going have to lead and speak passionately about a dialogue among
all people.

And I believe very strongly that issues of diversity, for me, the first Latino
to run for president, aren't talking points; they're facts of life.
(Applause.)


 You know, sometimes when I talk about education, and this is the first time we have talked about it in any debate, the first thing you hear is, how are you going to pay for it? Nobody asks how we're going to pay for the war. (Applause.) But it's important to state that improving our schools, improving education, access to education to all Americans, should be America's foremost priority. You know, I want to just state that for the record, I am for a minimum wage for teachers. The key to a good education is to pay our teachers and have accountability. (Applause.) 

And we have to have also -- we have to make sure that we deal with this
achievement gap. One out of two minorities in this country, one out of two
African-American, Latino kids don't make it through high school. They drop
out. That has to be combatted with at-risk programs, with programs that deal
with more parental involvement. We have to start early, universal preschool.
We did this in New Mexico. We did this. Kids under 4 -- full-day kindergarten.


 We have to have healthy breakfast for every child. 

And finally, we have to find a way to give every American access to a college
education.


 Thank you, sir. (Applause.) 

Senator Edwards.


 It is a moral imperative that America have a policy to fight this dreaded disease both nationally and internationally. You got to make some tough choices. First, we've got to have -- we have to use needles. We have to be sure that we have efforts in the African-American community, in minority communities, to have comprehensive education. In addition, we have to deal with Africa. Close to 20 percent of the African people have some kind of HIV virus. It's important that the president of the United States make a major funding effort, a major commitment to deal with this issue. And here I'm going to say something positive about President Bush. His funding for Millennium accountability and Millennium appropriations has been relatively impressive. 

And I believe it's important that not only we deal with this issue in this
country, bring -- bringing condoms, finding ways to increase needles,
penetrating minority outreach in communities --


 \-- that's how to deal with it. 


 There's no question -- there's no question that there's tax unfairness in this country, but we have to rebuild the economy. Yes, the Bush tax cuts of 2 percent; that has to go. 

But I would replace those Bush tax cuts with tax cuts for the middle class.
(Scattered applause.) I would reward companies that pay over the prevailing
wage, that go into the inner cities, that go into rural areas. I would also
have tax-free holidays for technology start-ups -- three years, if they train
people in the inner city, if they hire people over the prevailing wage.

We need to rebuild this economy by being pro-growth Democrats. We should be
the party of innovation, of entrepreneurship, of building capital, getting
capital for African American small businesses. We need to find a way in this
country that we say that globalization must work for the middle class.


 And we need to find ways also to use the tax code, not just to simplify it, but to make it fairer -- 


 \-- but also to generate jobs and reward entities in this country -- 


 I'm -- I'm almost finished. (Laughter.) 


 Carved at the marble top of the U.S. Supreme Court it says, "Equal justice under law." This country has had 200 years. Yet today 68 percent of those in jail are minorities. 

In your own book, Tavis, you say that one out of three African- American males
spends some time in jail. That is wrong.

And what we need is a strategy to deal with poverty. Expand the Earned Income
Tax Credit. Increase the minimum wage. Have a living wage in this country.
Find ways to expand child care. Find ways also to let Americans join a union.
This will not only give them more health care but more accountability and the
ability to protect themselves.


 The answer to your question is yes, I would support that. I would also support the Katrina Recovery Act of Representative Waters. 

This has been the most disgraceful episode in an American response to help our
own people. (Applause.) What we need to do in this country is not just atone
for a miserable performance before, during and after Katrina, but for the
future.

One, we need to make sure that FEMA is directly under the president. Secondly,
we need to make sure that we eliminate the 10 percent match. They did it for
9/11 in New York; they ought to do it for this situation. Third, we should get
rid of all the burdensome loans that are taken out. We also need to say --


 \-- to the insurance companies: You have to insure these people and rebuild homes in Louisiana. (Applause.) 


 Outsourcing is a problem. Most outsourcing jobs are technical. We need to upgrade our science and math standards in our school. It's education. And I would create 250 science and math academies to deal with that gap. 

In addition to that, what we need is trade agreements, fair trade agreements
where we say, no slave labor, no child labor; we're not going to have -- we're
going to have environmental protection; we're going to have to deal with wage
disparity. And also, I would have a different attitude toward the private
sector. I would say to the private sector, what is it going to take to keep
you here?

I would have an industrial policy where we invest in high-growth industries,
in health industries, in high-tech, in renewable energy, to keep those jobs
here.


 You know, in the last debate I upset some people because I said we should use the levers on China, on them hosting the Olympics, to do something on Darfur. You know, I believe that fighting genocide is more important than sports. So what I would like to do is, one, a no-fly zone. Get economic sanctions backed by the Europeans. 

We need to find ways to stop the massive rapes. I was in Darfur three months
ago. Today a report by Refugees International laid out a plan to deal with --


 \-- that. 


 We should not forget about Africa. American policymakers should take stands -- 


 \-- not just the Middle East and Iraq. 


 No, privatization is not the answer. But let me just say to all the union members here -- (applause) -- I am proud to have gotten your support, financial and workers, in my campaigns. I am here as a congressman, as a governor, as an elected official because of you, and I thank you, and I will continue taking your financial support. (Laughter.) 

Here's one way -- here's one way that I believe we can finance our
infrastructure in this country. I would start out by the Congress eliminating
the $23 billion they put forth for congressional earmarks. I would also ensure
that corporate welfare -- $73 billion worth -- is eliminated as a way to
reduce the debt. But we have to invest in our power grid. We have to invest in
our bridges, in our highways. I was able to do that as governor of New Mexico
-- $1.5 billion worth of highway construction to repair our bridges, to repair
our highways, to bring commuter rail -- we have to start thinking about new
infrastructure in America. We have to start thinking about making sure we have
strong land use policies, smart growth.

The government should be a partner with the states and localities in building
commuter rail, light rail, new forms of transportation besides repairing our
highways and our bridges.


 We should never have another trade agreement unless it enforces labor protection, environmental standards and job safety. What we need to do is say that from now on, America will adhere to all international labor standards in any trade agreement -- no child labor, no slave labor, freedom of association, collective bargaining -- that is critically important -- making sure that no wage disparity exists. 

Something else that I will also do -- my first day as president, I will get
rid of all the union-busting attorneys at the Department of Labor and OSHA and
all our agencies. (Cheers, applause.)


 China is a strategic competitor. And we've got to be tougher on China when it comes to human rights and trade. We've got to say to China, you've got to (stop ?) fooling around with currency. 

You've got to find ways, too, to be more sensitive to your workers, and you've
got to do more, China, in the area of human rights around the world, like put
pressure on the Sudan to stop the genocide in Darfur. (Cheers, applause.) So
we have to have a relationship with China that is realistic. We have to have a
relationship that involves both strategic competition and common interests.

Here's what I would do. I would --


 I will take whatever steps are necessary to protect the security of the United States. By withdrawing from Iraq, the real peace and reconciliation in that country can begin. We can get the three groups together, we can have an all-Muslim peacekeeping force, we will have a donor conference to rebuild that country. And then we can focus on what really affects American foreign policy -- the fight against international terrorism; greenhouse gas emissions, reducing greenhouse gas emissions; and third, a measure to ensure that there are no dirty bombs and a number of fissionable material around the world. 


 I was just in your town. It's Newton, Iowa. And I met with many workers that lost those Maytag jobs. 

I would protect their pensions from this restructuring. I would protect their
health care. What I would ensure that you had in the future is job protection,
OSHA protection.

What I would also say to you as an Iraqi war veteran, when you come home, I
will have guaranteed to protect our veterans, to fully fund VA hospitals, to
deal with the issues like mental health and PTSD for thousands of our Iraqi
and Afghanistan vets coming home. And something else I will do for all
veterans -- today you've got to get your health care at the VA; sometimes it's
170 miles away. They're understaffed, they're not fully funded. I would
guarantee funding for those VA hospitals, but I would also give you a heroes
health card so that you and Iraqi, Afghanistan, all veterans can get health
care in America anywhere you want, anywhere you want. (Cheers, applause.)


 My vice president would not be Dick Cheney. In fact -- (laughter, cheers, applause) -- I would not have -- my vice president would be a member of the executive branch. 

What I would also say is that my vice president has to have the ability to
step into the presidency. More than any other reason, that would be the reason
to select a vice presidential candidate. In fact, I think any of these here on
this stage would be an excellent vice president for me. (Laughter, applause.)


 I can't hear you. 


 Yes, it would trouble me. But what I would want to do is bring this country together. 

We need (sic) enormous challenges to face. It's got to be done in a bipartisan
way. I believe that I've got the most experience with foreign policy. I
believe I've got the most executive experience as a governor. We elect
governors in this country. I represent change, experience and electability. So
even if there were a potential contest or somebody surfacing, I believe that I
would have the ability to bring this country together, to heal this country,
to end the divisions after the Iraq war, to make the middle class feel that
their president is behind them, to have universal health care for all
Americans.


 Yes, I would, and I'm the only one on this stage that has actually negotiated with a foreign country with Iran. 


 And I want to just say to you that, in my judgment, we have to use diplomacy, and there is a red line. We cannot permit Iran to use nuclear weapons, and I do believe what you do is -- Ahmadinejad, it's very difficult to deal with him, but there are moderate elements in Iran. There are moderate clerics, there are students, there's a business community, and I believe that we can achieve a compromise on the nuclear issue in exchange for them having a nuclear fuel cycle, nuclear power; they don't develop nuclear weapons -- carrot and sticks, diplomatic initiatives, economic incentives. 

The problem is, we saber rattle, and this resolution in the Senate saber
rattles.

I was U.N. ambassador. I know this region, and I do believe that it's
critically important that we talk to North Korea, that we talk to Syria, that
we talk to Iran. And it's going to take skilled diplomacy, and what we have in
this administration is a policy of preemption, of saber rattling, of leaking
out potential targets in Iran. That's not going to get diplomacy started.

And I believe it's critical, if we're going to resolve the situation in the
Middle East, if we're going to get Iraq to stop Iran's helping terrorists, we
have to engage them, vigorously, potentially also with sanctions. And we need
to get European allies, who refuse generally to help us with sanctions, as
well as Russia. And what you saw recently is Russia and Iran embracing each
other. That is not healthy.


 Well, I would make the pledge, and it would be through diplomacy. And what we're also talking about is not just Pakistan. We're talking about enriched uranium, a loose nuclear weapon, nuclear materials, fissionable material throughout the world. Even more of a threat than nuclear weapons is a loose nuclear weapon crossing the border. So what we need is an international agreement, but the key has to be diplomacy. 

And I have -- in the fourth row there's a man named Bill Barloon, who I
rescued from an Iraqi prison in Abu Ghraib. And it's going to take leadership,
and it's going to take diplomacy. It's going to take negotiation. I went head
to head with Saddam Hussein, and I brought two Americans out. Bill Barloon is
one. And the greatest words I heard after I got them out was, "Thank you." And
then I said, "I'm taking you home." That's diplomacy. That means talking to
the Irans, to the Syrias, to the North Korea. I've done it all my life as a
diplomat, as a U.N. ambassador, as a special envoy, as a hostage negotiator.
I've got the most international experience here, with all due respect. There's
a lot of good international experience here, but I've gone head to head in
North Korea, and we got back -- we got back six remains of our soldiers six
months ago.

We got the North Koreans to stop their nuclear reactor. And so I believe it's
important that we have a leader not just that can bring people together, but
could resolve some of the thorniest problems we have.


 No. And I'm positive -- you know what I'm hearing here, I'm hearing this holier-than-thou attitude toward Senator Clinton. That it's bothering me because it's pretty close to personal attacks that we don't need. Do we trust her? Do we -- she takes money from special interests. 

We need to be positive in this campaign. Yes, we need to point out our
differences, and I have big differences with her. Over the war. I would get
all our troops out. Over No Child Left Behind. I'd get rid of it.

I also have differences over Iran. I think that was the wrong vote for her to
cast, because I think it was saber-rattling.

But I think it's important that we save the ammunition for the Republicans. If
we continue, I believe, harping on the past and not focusing on the future,
look, the reality on the electability issue is, the last senator that was
elected president was 40 years ago. His name was John F. Kennedy.

We elect governors as president. 7 out of the last 8 have been either
governors or ex-governors. And my view is that I know how to bring people
together. More than all the issues that we're talking about, it's who can
govern, who can manage.

I'm the only CEO in this race. I've balanced budgets. I've provided health
care to kids under 12. I've improved education. I've got foreign policy
experience. I've negotiated with foreign countries as a diplomat, as a hostage
negotiator.

Yeah, I do think it is substantially more than my colleagues, although they
have a strong record. But the important thing is that we need to stay
positive. We need to have disagreements on the issues, not on whether you can
trust. I trust Senator Clinton but I don't agree with her on a majority of
issues.


 You need an energy revolution in this country, an Apollo program that does the following. 

One: reduces consumption of fossil fuels by 50 percent by 2020. Fuel
efficiency: I'm going to be specific -- 50 miles per gallon. A renewable
portfolio standard -- in other words, all our electricity in America, 30
percent renewable sources. Reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 80 percent by
2040, by 30 percent by 2020, a cap-and- trade system, energy efficiency.

Two: You've got to ask the American people to sacrifice a little bit.

What does that mean? That means when we use appliances, mass transit, air
conditioning, that we all bound together to reduce this dependence on foreign
oil that affects our national security. When 65 percent of your oil is
imported, when the planet -- when the planet is polluted by fossil fuels and
man-made pollution, it is American leadership and it's presidential
leadership, and it has to be an energy revolution, not these little energy
bills that the Congress keeps passing that are meaningless.


 Yes, I'd commit to it. 

And I'm glad finally education is coming up in a major debate. This is what I
would do. We are 29th in the world in science and math compared to the EU, to
countries in China and India. They graduate four or five times more engineers.
There is a competitiveness gap here.

This is what I would do. One, I'd have 100,000 new science and math teachers.
But we have to pay our teachers what they deserve, a minimum wage, what I
believe, of $40,000 per year. I'd get rid of No Child Left Behind. I would
have science and math academies.


 But in the high school curriculum, it's critically important -- 


 \-- that we have more civics, more language, and art in the schools -- 


 \-- to provoke creativity in science and math proficiency. 


 Well, I have a specific proposal. Here it is. In exchange for two years of tuition paid by the government or loans, you give one year of national service to the country. This will attract more doctors and will enable students to afford a college education, when it's taken them 7 years to pay for this. 

Get rid of the student loan and bank agencies that are ripping off the system.
Reestablish, on a general basis, doctor-patient relationship. Deal with
Medicare reimbursement. Deal with ways that we also not forget health
professionals, and that's nurses. That's others that, in our health care
system, are not given the same opportunity.


 By the way, I'm Bill Richardson. I'm the governor of New Mexico. (Laughter, cheers, applause.) Nice to meet you all. 

You know, it seems that John wants to start a class war. It seems that Barack
wants to start a generational war. It seems that Senator Clinton with all due
respect on her plan on Iraq doesn't end the war -- (audio break from source).
(Laughter, cheers.) And I say that -- I say that because these are the
fundamental issues.

Do our plans end the war? Do our plans make America energy independent? Do our
plans give health care to every American? Are we creating jobs and economic
growth? Are we resolving the real problems affecting this country? You know,
let's stop this mud slinging. Let's stop this going after each other on
character, on trust. Let us debate the issues that affect the American people
-- (cheers, applause) -- and let us be positive. Let's be positive.


 Yes, I will support the nominee. 


 Well, my answer is yes, and I did it. You know why? Because the Congress -- I notice Barack mentioned the president, but the Congress also failed miserably to pass comprehensive immigration. And we need to have it in this country. 

I did it four years ago. My legislature sent me a bill. I signed it. My law
enforcement people said it's a matter of public safety. What we need is public
safety, a reduction in traffic fatalities. We wanted more people to be
insured. When we started with this program, 33 percent of all New Mexicans had
-- were uninsured. Today it's 11 percent. Traffic fatalities have gone down.
It's a matter of public safety.


 The states have to act when the federal government and the Congress doesn't act. The answer is comprehensive immigration. (Cheers, applause.) The answer is -- 


 \-- secure the borders, a stronger relationship with Mexico. Those that knowingly hire illegal workers should be punished, and a path to legalization. That is the solution. 


 I think the key -- I want to be the education president. The key to a good education is a strong teacher. One of the problems we have in this country is we disrespect teachers. We underpay them. (Cheers, applause.) I would have a minimum wage for all teachers starting out at $40,000 per year. 

And Chris, I think we need to be bolder with No Child Left Behind. I would
junk it. This is a disaster. (Cheers, applause.) It's got to go. I would have
preschool for every child. I'd have full day kindergarten. America is 29th in
science to the European Union, to Japan. We need to have science and math
academies, hire a hundred thousand science and math teachers, have art in the
schools. We need also -- (interrupted by applause) -- we need also to have a
college education policy that deals with these huge loans that are killing our
college students. (Cheers, applause.)

And what I would do -- look, what I would do -- and you know, we're at a great
college here.

What I would do is, in exchange for two years of tuition, government pays
tuition, one year of national service for this country. (Applause.) Those are
the kind of creative solutions we want in this country.


 Well, of course, I'm worried. But what happened with our Pakistan policy, we got our principles wrong. We forgot our principles, our principles that we said to Musharraf, you know, Musharraf, security is more important than human rights. If I'm president, it's the other way around -- (applause) -- democracy and human rights. 

What I would do is, yes, I would condition the assistance to Musharraf. We
give him $10 billion. 60 percent of that is to his military. I would say,
President Musharraf, unless you restore the constitution, unless you have
elections in January, unless you end the state of emergency, unless you allow
Benazir Bhutto to run as a candidate, unless you put the supreme court back.

And something else we've forgotten: He is supposed to go after terrorists on
his border, and he has done a very weak job of doing that. (Scattered
applause.) And you know, I would condition the assistance.


 But here is another point -- no, but here's another point. Pakistani -- in Pakistan -- in the politics of Pakistan, Islamic parties get maybe 15 percent of the vote. I mean, so this threat that, oh, revolutionary elements are going to overtake him -- if he has a fair election, and you take his party and Benazir Bhutto's party and you get the military -- 


 \-- I believe that moderate forces can win. So if we're on the side of democracy and human rights and we're on the side of Musharraf having elections, then U.S. interests are preserved and the Pakistani people have a democracy. (Applause.) 


 Yes, because I believe we -- (applause) -- we need to find ways to say to the world that, you know, it's not just about what Halliburton wants in Iraq, it's also about our -- (cheers, applause) -- values of freedom, equality. Our strength is not just military and economic. Our strength as a nation is our values -- equality, freedom, democracy -- 


 \-- human rights. (Applause.) 


 That's why we are strong. 


 John, we shouldn't be talking about body counts. One American death is too much. 

And -- (interrupted by cheers, applause) -- what I am saying here is the surge
is not working. There is less -- right now less possibility of a political
solution. Three out of the 18 benchmarks -- the General Accounting Office --
have been fulfilled. Even among Republican math is a failing grade.
(Laughter.) What I'm saying, also, is that look at this statistic -- 65
percent of the Iraqi people now say it's okay to shoot an American soldier.
Our troops are dying -- over 3,800, two today, 60,000 wounded, casualties,
mainly mental trauma.

Now, my position is that we get the troops out in a year. Leave no residual
forces behind unlike some of my colleagues here that want to leave some until
2013, but not just wave goodbye because we have a responsibility, and that is,
one, to get a political compromise, a U.S.-led political compromise among the
three groups; that they share power -- the Sunni, the Shi'a, the Kurds -- that
they share oil revenues; that we have an all-Muslim, all-Arab peacekeeping
force with some European forces headed by the U.N.; a donor conference that
involves other countries; European Union, rich Arab states contributing to the
reconstruction of Iraq, where we have spent --


 \-- $500 billion -- 


 \-- in this war when this money should be used in America for health care, education and for kids. (Cheers, applause.) 


 Wolf? Wolf? 


 Well, you mentioned all the labs, Argonne, Yucca Mountain. I was in charge of them. Here's what you do. 

First, the future is renewable. It's not oil, it's not coal, it's not nuclear.
(Applause.) What you do with the waste is you don't put it in Yucca Mountain.
All my life -- as secretary of Energy, as a congressman -- I opposed the site
for environmental reasons, water saturation.

I don't think the answer, also, is in regional sites.

There's a technological solution, a scientific solution. What I would do, I
would turn Yucca Mountain into a national laboratory. We have the greatest
brains, our national lab scientists. We need to find a way to safely dispose
of nuclear waste. There is a technological solution.

But while we do that, we shouldn't be giving the nuclear power industry all of
these advantages in the Senate bills that are coming forth, or subsidies. Oil,
coal and nuclear are getting most of the subsidies.

We need an energy revolution in this country -- (applause) -- to shift from
fossil fuels to renewable sources by 50 percent by the year 2020. Eighty
percent reduction of greenhouse emissions, a mandate.


 We need to have 30 percent of our electricity renewable. 

And it's got to be also the American people -- I'm g going to say this
honestly -- sacrificing a little bit when it comes to appliances -- (applause)
-- and when it comes to being part of an energy efficiency revolution.


 Yes. I would pull out all the contractors. (Cheers, applause.) I would get them all out, just like I would get all our troops out, all residual forces. And I would do it within a year. 


 Here's my answer. 

What I believe we need to do is we need to reform our military. This is what I
would do.

This war in Iraq has bled us enormously, has bled our military enormously. I
would find ways to keep the all-volunteer force. Now, I would say to you that
I would have two more divisions in the Army, two more in the Marines. I would
increase military pay and educational benefits, a new G.I. Bill for our
military. (Applause.)

But what I would also do is with our veterans, you know, and military
families. I would have a heroes health card for every military person in this
country -- (applause) -- which would mean that they could get health care, not
just at the VA system but anywhere they want. I would fully guarantee funding
at the VA.

And most importantly the big, big challenge is mental health. We don't treat
mental health with the parity that this country deserves. And our kids coming
back from Iraq, Afghanistan, Vietnam -- there's a huge burden, mental trauma,
traumatic brain injury, PTSD. And we have a VA system and we have a mental
health system in this country that is not given the parity, the coverage that
it deserves.


 By the way, Dennis, you keep -- stop including me in all these votes. I've been a governor. I'm in New Mexico. (Laughter.) I'm not in Washington. (Applause.) 

Here's my answer. You know, two years ago -- and I'm the only one that's dealt
with the immigration issue directly.

You know, and by the way, with the Congress, let me just say, the Congress's
approval rating is 11 percent. Now, you know who's higher? Dick Cheney and
HMOs. (Laughter.)

My point is that, you know, let's talk about the need to bring this together.
Dysfunctional relationships exist between the president and the Congress that
needs to be corrected.

Here's my answer. Two years ago, I'm the first governor that declared a border
emergency because the federal government wasn't doing its job in stopping the
flow of drugs and people. But you know what? We should stop demonizing
immigrants. We should stop doing that. (Applause.)

And I'm against the fence -- and I am against the fence because it will not
work. The Congress only funded half of the fence, and it's not America.

What I would do is I would do four quick things. One, we have to secure the
border. Double the number of Border Patrol agents. Keep the National Guard
there a little longer; detection equipment, as you mentioned.

Secondly, those that knowingly hire illegal workers should be punished.
(Applause.)

Third, we should have a relationship -- it's called foreign policy -- with
Mexico. They're our friend. But we should speak frankly to our friends, and it
should be something like this. "Mexico, give jobs to your people." (Cheers,
applause.) "You know, at the very least, stop handing out maps on the easiest
place to cross." (Laughter.) And then, lastly, a legalization plan -- a
legalization plan --


 \-- not amnesty, not citizenship, but a path to legalization that involves conditions -- learning English -- 


 \-- paying back taxes. 


 This is a very important issue. 


 I would have diversity as a prime criterion, but I would also ask my nominee -- this is what I would ask: Number one, do you believe Roe versus Wade is settled law? Number two, do you support the right to privacy? Number three, do you support civil rights? Number four, do you support -- (what you asked ?) -- education, school equalization? 

If the answer is no to those questions that basically say is it settled law or
not -- you want to call it a litmus test, fine -- those would be the judges
that I would appoint for the Supreme Court. (Applause.)


 Well, you know, tonight we've talked about Iran, we've talked about Iraq, we've talked about regimes that have not been friendly. I'd thrown in North Korea. 

The cornerstone of my foreign policy would be diplomacy and negotiation.

We would be not the world's policemen but the world's conscience. All my life
as an ambassador to the United Nations, as a special envoy, I've brought
people together -- as a governor, bipartisan solutions, as a congressmen, as a
secretary of Energy.

I'm going to answer your question specifically on the Middle East. Number one,
I would have a Middle East peace envoy. This president's the only president
that hasn't had one. I would base a Middle East settlement on a two-state
solution: protection for the security of Israel and a Palestinian state.

I would also look at adjustments in the '67 borders. I would also look at
dealing effectively and efficiently and fairly with the settlements issue,
with Jerusalem. I would do something else. I would talk to Syria. I would talk
to Iran.

It's all tied in a solution. It's called leadership and diplomacy. And to take
these steps, you have to be bold. We're talking about electing a president
that is going to need to repair the enormous damage of this administration in
the last eight years.


 In any foreign policy decision, I would use diplomacy first, in response to your question. 

And that basically means that the last thing we need in the Muslim world is
another action like Iraq, which is going to inflame the Muslim world in a
horrendous way.

Now, here's what I would do.

First, with Pakistan, here is an example of a country, a potentially failed
nation-state with nuclear weapons. What a president must do is have a foreign
policy of principles and realism.

And the Bush foreign policy, with Musharraf, we get the worst of all worlds.
We had a situation where he has not gone after Al Qaida in his own country,
despite the fact that we've given him $11 billion. And he's also severely
damaged the constitution. He's basically said that he is the supreme dictator.
So we have the worst of all worlds.

What I would specifically do as president is I would ask Musharraf to step
aside. There is a provision in the Pakistani constitution...


 Yes. For a caretaker... 

(CROSSTALK)


 Because we have the leverage to do that. 


 We have the leverage to do that. 

(CROSSTALK)


 And I would send a high-level envoy to ask him to step aside. 

There's a provision in the Pakistani constitution for a caretaker government
of technocrats. This happened when a previous prime minister died. And I would
make it unmistakably clear that he had to have elections.

Now, elections are scheduled tentatively for February. A broadly based
government, it's what's best for the United States.


 If we have actionable intelligence that is real and if Musharraf is incapable, which he is -- because here's a man who has not stood up for his democracy, he is virtually in a situation where he's losing control -- then you do take that action. 

However, Charlie, first you use diplomacy.

And diplomacy is to try to get what is best for the United States. And that is
a democratic Pakistan with free and fair elections, and a concerted effort on
the part of Musharraf or whoever is in the leadership in Pakistan to go after
the terrorists in those safe havens which they have not done.


 Charlie, I want us to just remember history. I want us to remember history. 

Years ago, we backed the shah of Iran, a dictator. We are paying for that
policy today by having backed a tyrant who repressed his people -- unintended
consequences.

A president has to act.

I believe that we have to be on the side of the Pakistani people, not on the
side of the dictator.

And what we have today is an opportunity to get Musharraf to step aside, to
move toward this caretaker government, but also -- also -- to use the leverage
of the assistance we've given him.

Most of the assistance that we've given him -- $11 billion, he hasn't used to
go after terrorists. He's put it in military assistance for his fight against
India. The money has been stolen.

We get the worst of all worlds. If we stand on a foreign policy of principle,
of human rights, along with protecting our security, that is the best
direction for our foreign policy.


 Charlie, when I was secretary of energy, that was one of my responsibilities: securing nuclear stockpiles, nuclear materials, mainly with the Soviet Union. 

I went there many times. We made progress.

But since then, there has been a proliferation of loose nuclear weapons,
mainly in the hands of terrorists, that could cross, presumably, a border;
that could be smuggled in in a cargo ship with our very weak port security.

If I'm elected president, I will do two things. First, I will seek immediate
negotiations with the Soviet Union and other nuclear states to reduce the
number of nuclear weapons, but also a treaty on fissionable material, where
you have verification, where you try to secure those loose nuclear weapons
from states like North Korea and others that could be drifting into the
international community.

But most importantly, I think we have to realize that the challenges America
faces internationally, they're transnational. They're stateless.

It's international terrorism. It's nuclear terrorism. It's environmental
degradation. Reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Making us less dependent on
fossil fuels. Those are the transnational challenges that are going to require
international cooperation.

And this president believes in unilateralism. This president believes in going
military first. This president believes in preemption. You discussed this in
the Republican debate. My foreign policy would be different.


 There would be realism,... 


 ... human rights and principles. 


 Well, I've been in hostage negotiations that are a lot more civil than this. 

(LAUGHTER)

(APPLAUSE)

You know, I think one of the things that we need to remember -- I'm going to
say this again because I said it at a previous debate -- let's stay positive.
You know, there will be plenty of time to get negative with the Republicans.


 You heard them earlier. 

(LAUGHTER)

Let us talk about how we're going to make sure that we deliver health care for
the American people, how we change America's foreign policy, how we make
schools better and pay teachers better and get rid of No Child Left Behind.

Look, what we need is change. There's no question. But, you know, whatever
happened to experience? Is experience kind of a leper? What is wrong with, you
know, what is wrong with having -- what is wrong with having been, like
myself, 14 years in the Congress, two Cabinet positions?

I mean, I've gone head-to-head with the North Koreans. We got the remains of
soldiers back. We persuaded them to reduce their nuclear weapons.

What is wrong with being a governor and going to a state and giving health
care to kids under 12 and creating jobs and balancing budgets?

What is wrong with being a secretary of energy who has made America, or tried
to make America a land of clean energy (inaudible)?

My point is this: We want to change this country, but you have to have -- you
have to know how to do it.


 And there's nothing wrong with having experience. 

So, you know, I love change. We all are for change. But the question is,
examine the record of those that, in the past, have produced change and that
has taken responsibilities. We need somebody that has been tested.


 The policy's a massive failure. 

Here are the measurements that we should look at. Thirty-nine hundred
Americans have lost their lives.

There are 60,000 Americans today that are wounded, mainly mentally wounded.

Tell that to the family that only 23 died in December.

Look, here are the barometers that we need to look at.

First, there is no military solution. There's a political solution.

Secondly, has there been progress in any political compromises or
reconciliation between the Sunni, the Shia and the Kurds? Zero.

Has there been progress in sharing oil revenues? Zero.

Has there been any regional elections? Zero.

Is the Maliki government intensifying its efforts to train the Iraqi security
forces more than they have? No.

Is there any end to Iran's efforts to bring terrorist activities to Iraq? No.

Iran, Syria -- no one has participated in a regional solution.

There...

(CROSSTALK)


 No, Charlie, I mean, this is why I'm running for president. Because until we end this war, we cannot talk about the issues that need to be dealt with here: universal health care, improving schools, bringing people together. 

You can't have change until you end the war, and that means bringing all of
our troops home within a year and leaving none behind.


 But this has been going on for years, Charlie. 


 There is no serious progress. 


 Well, John, you can't end the war without -- you've got to get all the troops out to end the war because they become targets. And if you leave a small force behind, then you cannot bring the political reconciliation that is needed; you cannot bring a peacekeeping force by the United Nations or a donor conference to take over the $570 billion that we've spent on this war on resources that should be spent on health care and education for our own people. 

This is where, with all due respect, we differ. I'd bring the troops back
within a year. I don't want, in five years -- because I did, in another
debate, some of you said you would keep troops, you wouldn't say you wouldn't
get them out by 2013.

I don't want, in five years, to have to look at an 8-year old today -- an
eighth grader, an American eighth grader today who is serving, five years from
now, in Iraq. I don't want to hear about the death of an American.

You know, as a governor, I fly the flags half-mast upon a death. I'm sick of
doing that. We need to stop that. We need to think of our veterans that are
coming back with PTSD, with traumatic brain injuries, with mental anguish. We
have a crisis on our hands.

And my whole point is that this whole campaign, everything we talk about --
universal health care, improving schools, helping kids -- cannot happen until
we get out of this war, because the Congress and the president basically have
a dysfunctional relationship where nothing gets done.


 And I can see that as a governor from my state as I try to deal with health care and education. 

So this is why it's so fundamental, and this is why I'm running for president.
End this war, and the way you do it is by getting all the troops out in one
year.


 Well, I think prior executive experience is very important. I'm the only governor here. I'm the only person here who has actually balanced budgets. 

I've balanced five. I've created 80,000 new jobs. I've lowered taxes for
everybody. I've insured kids under 12 in my state. I've improved education.

You know, you want somebody in this position that has had executive
experience.

And I will also say, Charlie, since, you know, I noticed Scott mentioned
everybody else in the poll, he didn't mention me...

(LAUGHTER)

But that's OK.


 Well, a little bit. 

(LAUGHTER)


 You know, let's face it -- the next president is going to have to have foreign policy experience. And of all the candidates here, I'm the only one that's negotiated with foreign governments, I'm the only one that has faced down the North Koreans and Saddam Hussein, I'm the only one that has had the highest national security clearance. 

You know, so there's something about having experience and been tested and
represented...

(CROSSTALK)


 Sure. 


 Look, both parties have been failures in dealing with energy policy, but you know -- and I remember meeting you there. Remember what I did, Scott. I went to OPEC countries and tried to get them to increase production so prices would go down. 

At the time, there was a home heating oil crisis here in New England. I
created reserves of home heating oil. Look at the price now in New Hampshire,
$3.20, something like that. It's the highest ever.

You know, what we need is an energy revolution in this country, not some of
the bills that the Congress has passed.


 We need to go to 50 miles per gallon fuel efficiency. We need to have 30 percent of all our electricity renewable. We need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 80 percent by the year 2040. 

And we need the American people to sacrifice a little bit. I would ask the
American people, when it comes to being more energy- conscious, to be
cognizant of appliances, of fuel efficiency, the vehicles we drive, mass
transit.

You know, I -- and I did when I was energy secretary, air conditioners 30
percent more efficient. I started the renewable portfolio. So, I did some
things, Scott.

The problem -- you're right. We need a bipartisan approach. But we need to
reduce fossil fuels by 50 percent by the year 2020, because our planet is
getting damaged. And Al Gore has been right.


 He deserves the Nobel Prize. I'm glad he stayed out of the race. 

(LAUGHTER)


 I didn't hear that. 


 Relative youth? No. You know, John F. Kennedy was 42 years old when he was elected president. He's my hero, and I think he was one of our greatest presidents because -- because he inspired, because he said he'd go to the moon in 10 years, because he said that we all collectively have to do something for the common good. 


 You know, this is the kind of Washington bickering that the public turns off to. And, you know, with all due respect, as a governor, I'm frustrated every time you guys and the president get nothing done because then the burden is on us. 

And, you know, John, I understand your frustration. I understand, you know,
that it's personal. But, you know, to resolve problems, you got to bring
people together. You got to heal this country.

You can't -- you know, it's great to say, We're going to take everybody on.
But, you know, it's going to take coalitions of people backing us. It's going
to take public financing to get the special interests out of politics. It's
going to take bipartisanship.

You know, what I've said is that if I'm elected president, I'm going to have a
Cabinet of Republicans, Democrats and independents.

Now, I won't overdo the Republicans.

(LAUGHTER)


 But my point is, it's how you govern. It's coalition-building. It's bringing the public -- a citizens corps of activists. It's asking the public to sacrifice, to do something for the country like being more energy efficient, like national service. 

You know, I've got a program, two years the government pays for your college
loans, your tuition, you give one year of national service to the country.

It's emboldering (ph) the electorate. You can't do it by just fighting and
taking everybody on. You got to bring people together. And that's a
frustration.


 Can I answer? 

You know, I was energy secretary. It's a bad idea. Because, when you have a
carbon tax, first of all, it's not a mandate. What you want is a mandate on
polluters, on coal companies, on those that pollute, to reduce greenhouse gas
emissions by a certain target.

Under my plan: 30 percent by the year 2020; 80 percent by the year 2040. It
takes international leadership. The better way to do it is through a cap-and-
trade system which is a mandate.

Furthermore, a carbon tax, that's passed on to consumers, that's passed on to
the average person, that's money you take out of the economy.

So it's a bad idea.

Cap-and-trade is a mandate, but it's also going to take presidential
leadership. It's going to take all of us here, every American, you know, to
think more efficiently about how we transport ourself, what vehicles we
purchase, appliances in our homes.

It's going to take a transportation policy that doesn't just build more
highways. We have to have commuter rail, light rail, open spaces. We've got to
have land-use policies where we improve people's quality of life.


 Well, also, like Governor Lynch here, I'm the only one that's actually run a state economy. I'm the only one that's balanced budgets and created jobs. 

So, here's my response. You asked about how we improve the economy.

One, you got to balance the budget. I mean, this is $9 trillion debt to China,
to commercial banks.

We got to have line-item veto authority for the president.

We've got to get rid of $73 billion in corporate welfare.

The second thing we need to do is, what ever happened to the Democratic Party?
We used to be the party of jobs and economic growth. We should be investing in
science and innovation and in green energy.

Tax incentives -- if a company pays over prevailing wage, give them a tax
incentive.


 And, lastly, we have not talked about education in this whole debate. We've got to improve our schools. We've got to pay our teachers better. Invest in science and math. Get rid of No Child Left Behind. We've got to have arts in the schools. 

We have to be an America that recognizes we're 29th in the world in science
and math, and countries like China and India are graduating many more times
engineers than we are. That's competitiveness.


 Well, I made a lot of them. One that I particularly remember -- I think it was here in New Hampshire, the first debate. I was asked who my favorite Supreme Court justice was. And I said, dead or alive? 

(LAUGHTER)

I said -- I should've stuck to the alive, because I then said Whizzer White
because I idolized John F. Kennedy, and I figured if he appointed Whizzer
White, this was a great Supreme Court justice.

Well, then I find out that Whizzer White was against Roe v. Wade, against
civil rights. You know, so that's -- that wasn't -- that wasn't a good one.

(LAUGHTER)

(APPLAUSE)


