 Well, we meet tonight here in Philadelphia where our founders determined that the promise of America would be available for future generations if we were willing and able to make it happen. 

You know, I am here, as is Senator Obama. Neither of us were included in those
original documents. But in a very real sense, we demonstrate that that promise
of America is alive and well. But it is at risk.

There is a lot of concern across Pennsylvania and America. People do feel as
though their government is not solving problems, that it is not standing up
for them, that we've got to do more to actually provide the good jobs that
will support families, deal once and for all with health care for every
American, make our education system the true passport to opportunity, restore
our standing in the world.

I am running for president because I know we can meet the challenges of today,
that we can continue to fulfill that promise that was offered to successive
generations of Americans starting here so long ago.

And I hope that this evening, voters in Pennsylvania and others across the
country will listen carefully to what we have to say, will look at our
records, will look at the plans we have.

And I offer those on my website, hillaryclinton.com, for more detail. Because
I believe with all my heart that we the people can have the kind of future
that our children and grandchildren so richly deserve.


 Well, Charlie, I'm going to do everything I possibly can to make sure that one of us takes the oath of office next January. I think that has to be the overriding goal, whatever we have to do. 

Obviously we are still contesting to determine who will be the nominee. But
once that is resolved, I think it is absolutely imperative that our entire
party close ranks, that we become unified.

I will do everything to make sure that the people who supported me support our
nominee.

I will go anywhere in the country to make the case. And I know that Barack
feels the same way, because both of us have spent 15 months traveling our
country. I have seen the damage of the Bush years. I've seen the extraordinary
pain that people have suffered from because of the failed policies; you know,
those who have held my hands who have lost sons or daughters in Iraq, and
those who have lost sons or daughters because they didn't have health
insurance.

And so, regardless of the differences there may be between us, and they are
differences, they pale in comparison to the differences between us and Senator
McCain.

So we will certainly do whatever is necessary to make sure that a Democrat is
in the White House next January.


 Well, I am the granddaughter of a factory worker from Scranton who went to work in the Scranton lace mills when he was 11 years old, worked his entire life there, mostly six-day weeks. 

He was also very active in the Court Street Methodist Church. And he raised
three sons and was very proud that he sent all of them to college.

I don't believe that my grandfather or my father, or the many people whom I
have had the privilege of knowing and meeting across Pennsylvania over many
years, cling to religion when Washington is not listening to them. I think
that is a fundamental, sort of, misunderstanding of the role of religion and
faith in times that are good and times that are bad.

And I similarly don't think that people cling to their traditions, like
hunting and guns, either when they are frustrated with the government. I just
don't believe that's how people live their lives.

Now, that doesn't mean that people are not frustrated with the government. We
have every reason to be frustrated, particularly with this administration.

But I can see why people would be taken aback and offended by the remarks. And
I think what's important is that we all listen to one another and we respect
one another and we understand the different decisions that people make in
life, because we're a stronger country because of that.

And certainly the weeks that I have spent criss-crossing Pennsylvania, from
Erie to Lancaster County, and meeting a lot of wonderful people, says to me
that despite whatever frustration anyone has with our government, people are
resilient, they are positive, and they're ready for leadership again that will
summon them to something greater than themselves, and that we will deliver on
that if given a chance.


 Well, I think we have to beat John McCain, and I have every reason to believe we're going to have a Democratic president and it's going to be either Barack or me. And we're going to make that happen. 

And what is important is that we understand exactly the challenges facing us
in order to defeat Senator McCain.

He will be a formidable candidate. There isn't any doubt about that. He has a
great American story to tell. He's a man who has served our country with
distinction over many years, but he has the wrong ideas about America. And
those ideas will be tested in the cauldron of this campaign.

But I also know, having now gone through 16 years of being on the receiving
end of what the Republican Party dishes out, how important it is that we try
to go after every single vote everywhere we possibly can to get to those
electoral votes that we're going to need to have the next president elected.


 Yes. Yes. Yes. 

Now, I think that I can do a better job. (Laughter.) I mean, obviously, that's
why I'm here. I think I am better able and better prepared in large measure
because of what I've been through and the work that I've done and the results
that I've produced for people and the coalition that I have put together in
this campaign, that Charlie referred to earlier.

Obviously, I believe I would be the best president, or I would not still be
here, standing on this stage, and I believe I'm the better and stronger
candidate against Senator McCain, to go toe to toe with him on national
security and on how we turn the economy around.


 Well, could I -- 


 Oh, I do. 

Well, first of all, I want to be very clear. My comments were about your
remarks.

And I think that's important, because it wasn't just me responding to them, it
was people who heard them, people who felt as though they were aimed at their
values, their quality of life, the decisions that they have made.

Now, obviously, what we have to do as Democrats is make sure we get enough
votes to win in November. And as George just said, you know, the Republicans,
who are pretty shrewd about what it takes to win, certainly did jump on the
comments.

But what's important here is what we each stand for and what our records are
and what we have done over the course of our lives to try to improve the
circumstances of those who deserve to live up to their own potential, to make
the decisions that are right for them and their families. And I think year
after year for now 35 years, I have a proven record of results.

And what I'm taking into this campaign is my passion for empowering people,
for giving people the feeling that they can make a better future for
themselves. And I think it's important that that starts from a base of respect
and connection in order to be able to get people to follow you and believe
that you will lead them in the better direction.


 I was asked a personal question, Charlie, and I gave a personal answer. Obviously, one's choice of church and pastor is rooted in what one believes is what you're seeking in church and what kind of, you know, fellowship you find in church. But I have to say that, you know, for Pastor Wright to have given his first sermon after 9/11 and to have blamed the United States for the attack, which happened in my city of New York, would have been intolerable for me. And therefore I would have not been able to stay in the church, and maybe it's, you know, just, again, a personal reflection that regardless of whatever good is going on -- and I have no reason to doubt that a lot of good things were happening in that church -- you get to choose your pastor. You don't choose your family, but you get to choose your pastor. And when asked a direct question, I said I would not have stayed in the church. 


 Well, I think, in addition to the questions about Reverend Wright and what he said and when he said it, and for whatever reason he might have said these things, there were so many different variations on the explanations that we heard. And it is something that I think deserves further exploration, because clearly what we've got to figure out is how we're going to bring people together in a way that overcomes the anger, overcomes the divisiveness and whatever bitterness there may be out there. 

It is clear that, as leaders, we have a choice who we associate with and who
we apparently give some kind of seal of approval to. And I think that it
wasn't only the specific remarks, but some of the relationships with Reverend
Farrakhan, with giving the church bulletin over to the leader of Hamas to put
a message in. You know, these are problems, and they raise questions in
people's minds.

And so this is a legitimate area, as everything is when we run for office, for
people to be exploring and trying to find answers.


 Well, Tom, I can tell you that I may be a lot of things, but I'm not dumb. And I wrote about going to Bosnia in my book in 2004. I laid it all out there. And you're right. On a couple of occasions in the last weeks I just said some things that weren't in keeping with what I knew to be the case and what I had written about in my book. And, you know, I'm embarrassed by it. I have apologized for it. I've said it was a mistake. And it is, I hope, something that you can look over, because clearly I am proud that I went to Bosnia. It was a war zone. 

General Wesley Clark is here in the audience with me as one of my major
supporters. He and I were talking about it before I came out. You know, our
soldiers were there to try to police and keep the peace in a very dangerous
area. They were totally in battle gear. There were concerns about the
potential dangers. The former president of Bosnia has said that he was worried
about the safety of the situation.

So I know that it is something that some people have said, "Wait a minute.
What happened here?" But I have talked about this and written about it. And
then, unfortunately, on a few occasions I was not as accurate as I have been
in the past.

But I know too that, you know, being able to rely on my experience of having
gone to Bosnia, gone to more than 80 countries, having represented the United
States in so many different settings gives me a tremendous advantage going
into this campaign, particularly against Senator McCain.

So I will either try to get more sleep, Tom, or, you know, have somebody who,
you know, is there as a reminder to me. You know, you can go back for the past
15 months. We both have said things that, you know, turned out not to be
accurate. You know, that happens when you're talking as much as we have
talked.

But you know, I'm very sorry that I said it. And I have said that, you know,
it just didn't jibe with what I had written about and knew to be the truth.


 (Laughs.) 


 Well, I think that is a fair general statement, but I also believe that Senator Obama served on a board with Mr. Ayers for a period of time, the Woods Foundation, which was a paid directorship position. 

And if I'm not mistaken, that relationship with Mr. Ayers on this board
continued after 9/11 and after his reported comments, which were deeply
hurtful to people in New York, and I would hope to every American, because
they were published on 9/11 and he said that he was just sorry they hadn't
done more. And what they did was set bombs and in some instances people died.
So it is -- you know, I think it is, again, an issue that people will be
asking about. And I have no doubt -- I know Senator Obama's a good man and I
respect him greatly but I think that this is an issue that certainly the
Republicans will be raising.

And it goes to this larger set of concerns about, you know, how we are going
to run against John McCain. You know, I wish the Republicans would apologize
for the disaster of the Bush-Cheney years and not run anybody, just say that
it's time for the Democrats to go back into the White House. (Laughter,
applause.)

Unfortunately, they don't seem to be willing to do that. So we know that
they're going to be out there, full force. And you know, I've been in this
arena for a long time. I have a lot of baggage, and everybody has rummaged
through it for years. (Laughter.) And so therefore, I have, you know, an
opportunity to come to this campaign with a very strong conviction and feeling
that I will be able to withstand whatever the Republican sends our way.


 I've noticed. (Laughs.) 


 We can wait. 


 Yes, I am, Charlie. And here's why: You know, thankfully we have a system in our country of civilian control of the military. And our professional military are the best in the world. They give their best advice and then they execute the policies of the president. I have watched this president as he has continued to change the rationale and move the goalposts when it comes to Iraq. 

And I am convinced that it is in America's best interest, it is in the best
interest of our military, and I even believe it is in the best interest of
Iraq, that upon taking office, I will ask the secretary of Defense and the
Joint Chiefs of Staff and my security advisers to immediately put together for
me a plan so that I can begin to withdraw within 60 days. I will make it very
clear that we will do so in a responsible and careful manner, because
obviously, withdrawing troops and equipment is dangerous.

I will also make it clear to the Iraqis that they no longer have a blank check
from the president of the United States, because I believe that it will be
only through our commitment to withdraw that the Iraqis will begin to do what
they have failed to do for all of these years.

I will also begin an intensive diplomatic effort, both within the region and
internationally, to begin to try to get other countries to understand the
stakes that we all face when it comes to the future of Iraq.

But I have been convinced and very clear that I will begin to withdraw troops
within 60 days. And we've had other instances in our history where some
military commanders have been very publicly opposed to what a president was
proposing to do.

But I think it's important that this decision be made, and I intend to make
it.


 No, what I'm saying, Charlie, is that no one can predict what will happen. There are many different scenarios. But one thing I am sure of is that our staying in Iraq, our continuing to lose our men and women in uniform, having many injured, the Iraqi casualties that we are seeing as well, is -- is no way for us to maintain a strong position in the world. 

It's not only about Iraq. It is about ending the war in Iraq, so that we can
begin paying attention to all of the other problems we have. There isn't any
doubt that Afghanistan has been neglected. It has not gotten the resources
that it needs. We hear that from our military commanders responsible for that
region of the world. And there are other problems that we have failed to
address.

So the bottom line for me is, we don't know what will happen as we withdraw.
We do know what will happen if we stay mired in Iraq. The Iraqi government
will not accept responsibility for its own future.

Our military will continue to be stretched thin, and our soldiers will be on
their second, third, even their fourth deployment. And we will not be able to
reassert our leadership and our moral authority in the world.

And I think those are the kind of broad issues that a president has to take
into account.


 Well, in fact, George, I think that we should be looking to create an umbrella of deterrence that goes much further than just Israel. Of course I would make it clear to the Iranians that an attack on Israel would incur massive retaliation from the United States, but I would do the same with other countries in the region. 

You know, we are at a very dangerous point with Iran. The Bush policy has
failed. Iran has not been deterred. They continue to try to not only obtain
the fissile material for nuclear weapons but they are intent upon and using
their efforts to intimidate the region and to have their way when it comes to
the support of terrorism in Lebanon and elsewhere.

And I think that this is an opportunity, with skillful diplomacy, for the
United States to go to the region and enlist the region in a security
agreement vis-a-vis Iran. It would give us three tools we don't now have.

Number one, we've got to begin diplomatic engagement with Iran, and we want
the region and the world to understand how serious we are about it. And I
would begin those discussions at a low level. I certainly would not meet with
Ahmadinejad, because even again today he made light of 9/11 and said he's not
even sure it happened and that people actually died. He's not someone who
would have an opportunity to meet with me in the White House. But I would have
a diplomatic process that would engage him.

And secondly, we've got to deter other countries from feeling that they have
to acquire nuclear weapons. You can't go to the Saudis or the Kuwaitis or UAE
and others who have a legitimate concern about Iran and say: Well, don't
acquire these weapons to defend yourself unless you're also willing to say we
will provide a deterrent backup and we will let the Iranians know that. Yes,
an attack on Israel would trigger massive retaliation, but so would an attack
on those countries that are willing to go under this security umbrella and
forswear their own nuclear ambitions.

And finally we cannot permit Iran to become a nuclear weapons power. And this
administration has failed in our efforts to convince the rest of the world
that that is a danger, not only to us and not just to Israel but to the region
and beyond.

Therefore we have got to have this process that reaches out, beyond even who
we would put under the security umbrella, to get the rest of the world on our
side to try to impose the kind of sanctions and diplomatic efforts that might
prevent this from occurring.


 Well, George, I have made a commitment that I will let the taxes on people making more than $250,000 a year go back to the rates that they were paying in the 1990s. 


 Yes. And here's why: Number one, I do not believe that it will detrimentally affect the economy by doing that. As I recall, you know, we used that tool during the 1990s to very good effect and I think we can do so again. 

I am absolutely committed to not raising a single tax on middle class
Americans, people making less than $250,000 a year. In fact, I have a very
specific plan of $100 billion in tax cuts that would go to help people afford
health care, security retirement plans, you know, make it possible for people
to get long-term care insurance and care for their parents and grandparents
who they are trying to support, making college affordable and so much else.

Well, if you look at how we'd have to sequence that, we might not be able to
do all of that at once. But if you go to my website, HillaryClinton.com, it is
laid out there how I will pay for everything, because everything I have
proposed, I have put in how I would pay for it.


 No, that's right. That is my commitment. 


 Well, let me start by saying that I think we know that we've got to get back to an economy that works for everyone. The president has been very good for people who are doing well, and that's great. But it was better for our country when we had an economy that lifted everyone up at the same time, and we had that during the 1990s; you know, 22.7 million new jobs, more people lifted out of poverty than any time in our recent history. A typical family saw a $7,000 increase in income. 

And we have lost that. You know, now the typical family has lost at least
$1,000. And the fact is that, you know, I don't want to take one more penny of
tax money from anybody. But what I want to do is make some smart investments.
And I was the first to come out with a strategic energy fund, where we need to
be investing in clean renewable energy. And I think we could put 5 million
Americans to work.

I think we have to invest in our infrastructure. That also will get the
economy moving again, and I believe we could put about 3 million people to
work in good union jobs where people get a good wage with a good set of
benefits that can support a middle-class family with a rising standard of
living.

I want to see us actually tackle the housing crisis, something I've been
talking about for over a year. If I had been president a year ago, I believe
we would have begun to avoid some of the worst of the mortgage and credit
crisis, because we would have started much earlier than we have -- in fact, I
don't think we've really done very much at all yet -- in dealing with a way of
freezing home foreclosures, of freezing interest rates, getting money into
communities to be able to withstand the problems that are caused by
foreclosures.

Governor Rendell has done a great job in Pennsylvania. He saw this coming. And
unlike our current president, who either didn't know it or didn't care about
it, he has really held the line, and Pennsylvania has been much less affected
by home foreclosures. But the president hasn't done that, and what I have
proposed would do that.

So you've got to look at the entire economy. And from my perspective, yes,
taxes is a piece of it. But you've got to figure out what is it we would
invest in that would make us richer and safer and stronger tomorrow, which
would (be ?) helping everybody.


 I wouldn't raise it above the 20 percent if I raised it at all. I would not raise it above what it was during the Clinton administration. 


 You know, Charlie, I'm going to have to look and see what the revenue situation is. You know, we now have the largest budget deficit we've ever had, $311 billion. We went from a $5.6 trillion projected surplus to what we have today, which is a $9 trillion debt. 

I don't want to raise taxes on anybody. I'm certainly against one of Senator
Obama's ideas, which is to lift the cap on the payroll tax, because that would
impose additional taxes on people who are, you know, educators here in the
Philadelphia area or in the suburbs, police officers, firefighters and the
like.

So I think we have to be very careful about how we navigate this.

So the $250,000 mark is where I am sure we're going. But beyond that, we're
going to have to look and see where we are.


 Well, in fact, I am totally committed to making sure Social Security is solvent. If we had stayed on the path we were on at the end of my husband's administration, we sure would be in a lot better position because we had a plan to extend the life of the Social Security Trust Fund and again, President Bush decided that that wasn't a priority, that the war in Iraq and tax cuts for the wealthiest of Americans were his priorities, neither of which he's ever paid for. I think it's the first time we've ever been taken to war and had a president who wouldn't pay for it. 

But when it comes to Social Security, fiscal responsibility is the first and
most important step. You've got to begin to reign in the budget, pay as you
go, to try to replenish our Social Security Trust Fund.

And with all due respect, the last time we had a crisis in Social Security was
1983. President Reagan and Speaker Tip O'Neill came up with a commission. That
was the best and smartest way, because you've got to get Republicans and
Democrats together.

That's what I will do. And I will say, number one, don't cut benefits on
current beneficiaries; they're already having a hard enough time. And number
two, do not impose additional tax burdens on middle-class families.

There are lots of ways we can fix Social Security that don't impose those
burdens, and I will do that.


 But there are more progressive ways of doing it than, you know, lifting the cap. And I think we'll work it out. I have every confidence we're going to work it out. I know that we can make this happen. 


 Well, Charlie, on Friday, I was with Mayor Nutter, who's here, in West Philadelphia at the YMCA there, to talk about what we could do together to bring down the crime rate that has ravaged Philadelphia. 

You know, more than one person, on average, a day is murdered in Philadelphia.
And Mayor Nutter is very committed, as the mayor of this great city, to try to
do what he can to stem the violence.

And what I said then is what I have been saying, that I will be a good
partner, for cities like Philadelphia, as president. Because I will bring back
the COPS program, the so-called COPS program, where we had 100,000 police on
the street, which really helped drive down the crime rate and also helped
create better community relations.

I will also work to reinstate the assault weapons ban. We had it during the
1990s. It really was an aid to our police officers, who are now once again,
because it has lapsed -- the Republicans will not reinstate it -- are being
outgunned on our streets by these military- style weapons.

I will also work to make sure that police departments in Philadelphia,
Pittsburgh, Harrisburg, across America get access to the federal information
that will enable them to track illegal guns, because the numbers are
astounding. Probably 80 percent of the guns used in gun crimes are in the
hands of that criminal, that gang member -- unfortunately, people who are
sometimes, you know, mentally challenged -- because it got there illegally.
And under the Republicans, that information was kept from local law
enforcement.

So I believe that we can balance what I think is the right equation. I respect
the Second Amendment. I respect the rights of lawful gun owners to own guns,
to use their guns, but I also believe that most lawful gun owners whom I have
spoken with for many years across our country also want to be sure that we
keep those guns out of the wrong hands.

And as president, I will work to try to bridge this divide, which I think has
been polarizing and, frankly, doesn't reflect the common sense of the American
people.

So we will strike the right balance to protect the constitutional right but to
give people the feeling and the reality that they will be protected from guns
in the wrong hands.


 You know, George, I want to give local communities the opportunity to have some authority over determining how to keep their citizens safe. 

This case you're referring to, before the Supreme Court, is apparently
dividing the Bush administration. You know, the Bush administration basically
said, we don't have enough facts to know whether or not it is appropriate.

And Vice President Cheney who, you know, is a fourth special branch of
government all unto himself -- (laughter) -- has actually filed a brief
saying, oh, no, we have to, you know, we have to prevent D.C. from doing this.

So --


 Well, what I support is sensible regulation that is consistent with the constitutional right to own and bear arms. 


 Well, I think a total ban, with no exceptions under any circumstances, might be found by the court not to be. But I don't know the facts. 

But I don't think that should blow open a hole that says that D.C. or
Philadelphia or anybody else cannot come up with sensible regulations to
protect their people and keep, you know, machine guns and assault weapons out
of the hands of folks who shouldn't have them.


 What I favor is what works in New York. You know, we have a set of rules in New York City and we have a totally different set of rules in the rest of the state. What might work in New York City is certainly not going to work in Montana. So, for the federal government to be having any kind of, you know, blanket rules that they're going to try to impose, I think doesn't make sense. 


 I was for -- I was for the New York rules, that's right. I was for the New York rules because they have worked over time. And there isn't a lot of uproar in New York about changing them, because I go to upstate New York, where we have a lot of hunters and people who are collectors and people who are sport shooters; they have every reason to believe that their rights are being respected. You walk down the street with a police officer in Manhattan; he wants to be sure that there is some way of protecting him and protecting the people that are in his charge. 


 Well, here's the way I'd prefer to think about it. 

I think we've got to have affirmative action generally to try to give more
opportunities to young people from disadvantaged backgrounds -- whoever they
are. That's why I'm a strong supporter of early childhood education and
universal pre-kindergarten.

That's why I'm against No Child Left Behind as it is currently operating. And
I would end it, because we can do so much better to have an education system
that really focuses in on kids who need extra help.

That's why I'm in favor of much more college aid, not these outrageous
predatory student loan rates that are charging people I've met, across
Pennsylvania, 20, 25, 28 percent interest rates. Let's make college affordable
again.

See, I think we have to look at what we're trying to achieve here somewhat
differently. We do have a real gap. We have a gap in achievement. We have a
gap in income. But we don't have a potential gap.

I think our job should be to try to create the conditions that enable people
to live up to their God-given potential. And that means health care for
everyone -- no exceptions, nobody left out. And it means taking a hard look at
what we need to do to compete and win in the global economy.

So that's how I prefer to think about it. You know, let's affirmatively invest
in our young people and make it possible for them to have a good middle-class
life in today's much more competitive economy.


 That's right. 


 Well, I met with a group of truckers in Harrisburg about a week and a half ago, and here's what I told them. Number one, we are going to investigate these gas prices. The federal government has certain tools that this administration will not use, in the Federal Trade Commission and other ways, through the Justice Department, because I believe there is market manipulation going on, particularly among energy traders. We've seen this movie before, in Enron, and we've got to get to the bottom to make sure we're not being taken advantage of. 

Number two, I would quit putting oil into the Strategic Petroleum Reserve and
I would release some to help drive the price down globally.

And thirdly, if there is any kind of gas tax moratorium, as some people are
now proposing --


 \-- like John McCain, and some Democrats, frankly -- I think Senator Menendez and others have said that we may have to do something, because when you get to $4-a-gallon gas, people are not going to be able to afford to drive to work. And what I would like to see us do is to say if we have that, then we should have a windfall profits tax on these outrageous profits of the oil companies, and put that money back into the highway trust fund, so that we don't lose out on repair and construction and rebuilding. 

But ultimately, Charlie, we've got to have a long-term energy strategy. We are
so much more dependent on foreign oil today than we were on 9/11, and that is
a real indictment of our leadership. And I've laid out a comprehensive plan to
move us toward energy independence that I hope I will have the opportunity to
implement as president.


 I'm going to have to give some serious thought to that. (Laughter.) You know, I do believe that it's a way to unify our country. I thought that President Bush was right when he asked his father and Bill to represent us during the aftermath of the tsunami. I thought it sent a great message here at home and around the world. And I'm sure that there will be opportunities to ask all the former presidents to work on behalf of our nation. 

You know, we've got to come together. And the former presidents really
exemplify that, whether one agrees with them politically or not. When they're
all together, representing our country, that sends a strong message. And I
would look for a way to use all our former presidents, but that'll take some
careful thought on my part. (Laughter.)


 Well, I say to them what I've said to voters across America -- that we need a fighter back in the White House. We need someone who's going to take on the special interests. 

And I have a plan to take away $55 billion of the giveaways and the subsidies
that the president and Congress have lavished on the drug companies and the
oil companies and the insurance companies and Wall Street. And I have a plan
to give that money back -- give it back in tax cuts to the middle class --
people who deserve it, who have been struggling under this president, who feel
invisible, who feel like, you know, they're not even seen anymore.

And we're going to make everybody feel like they're part of the American
family again. And we're going to tackle the problems that have been waiting
for a champion back in the White House.

Now, obviously, I can't do this alone. I can only do it if I get people who
believe in me and support me and who look at my track record and know that,
you know, I've spent a lifetime trying to empower people, trying to fight for
them.

And I think it's going to be challenging, but it is absolutely what we must do
in order to keep faith with our country and to give our children the future
that they deserve.

So I will tell everyone who listens that I'm ready to be the commander in
chief. I've 35 generals and admirals, including two former chairmen of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Wesley Clark and others, who believe that I am
the person to lead us out of Iraq, to take on al Qaeda, to rebuild our
military.

And I will turn this economy around. We will get back to shared prosperity and
we will see once again that we can do this the right way so it's not just a
government of the few, by the few and for the few. And I need your help. I
need the help of the voters here in Pennsylvania, first and foremost, in order
to be able to get to those conversations.

And I hope that I have demonstrated not just over the last weeks or even over
the last hour and half but over a lifetime that you can count on me. You know
where I stand. You know that I will fight for you and that together we're
going to take back our country.




 I'm Hillary Clinton, a senator from New York running for president. 


 No, I do not. I am a senator from New York. I have lived with the aftermath of 9/11. 

And I have seen firsthand the terrible damage that can be inflicted on our
country by a small band of terrorists who are intent upon foisting their way
of life and using suicide bombers and suicidal people to carry out their
agenda. And I believe we are safer than we were. We are not yet safe enough,
and I have proposed over the last year a number of policies that I think we
should be following.


 Well, I have the deepest respect for my friend Senator Biden, and he and I have agreed on much of what we have attempted to do. Unfortunately, we don't have a president who is willing to change course, and I think it was time to say enough is enough. I thought the best way to support our troops was to try to send a very strong message that they should begin to come home. 

That is the best way to support them, and I thought that vote was an
opportunity to do so.

Everybody on this stage, we are all united, Wolf. We all believe that we need
to try to end this war. In two nights you're going to have the Republican
candidates here; they all support the war, they all support the president,
they all supported the escalation. Each of us is trying in our own way to
bring the war to an end.


 (Laughs.) 


 Well, and I think it's important particularly to point out this is George Bush's war. He is responsible for this war. 

He started the war. He mismanaged the war. He escalated the war. And he
refuses to end the war.

And what we are trying to do, whether it's by speaking out from the outside or
working and casting votes that actually make a difference from the inside, we
are trying to end the war. And each of us has made that very clear. We have
different approaches. I have a three-step plan to bring the troops home
starting now, put pressure on the Iraqi government to take responsibility, and
cut off aid when they won't, and engage in intensive diplomacy regionally and
internationally.


 The differences among us are minor. The differences between us and the Republicans are major. And I don't want anybody -- 


 \-- in America to be confused. 


 Yeah, hard to hear you. 


 Wolf, I was thoroughly briefed. I knew all the arguments, I knew all of what the Defense Department, the CIA, the State Department were all saying. And I sought out dissenting opinions, as well as talking to people in previous administrations and outside experts. 

You know, that was a sincere vote based on my assessment that sending
inspectors back into Iraq to determine once and for all whether Saddam Hussein
had weapons of mass destruction, and using coercive diplomacy, was not an
unreasonable act. What I did not count on, and what none of us did who voted
to give the president authority, is that he had no intention to allow the
inspectors to finish their job.

Now, we can argue about the past or we can answer the question you asked about
from the National Guard. Our troops did the job they were asked to do. They
got rid of Saddam Hussein. They conducted the search for weapons of mass
destruction. They gave the Iraqi people a chance for elections and to have a
government. It is the Iraqis who have failed to take advantage of that
opportunity.


 I feel like I was totally briefed, I knew all of the arguments that were being made by everyone from all directions. National Intelligence Estimates have a consensus position and then they have argumentation as to those people who don't agree with it. I thought the best way to find out who was right in the intelligence community was to send in the inspectors. And if George Bush had allowed the inspectors to finish the job they started, we would have known that Saddam Hussein did not have WMD and we would not have gone and invaded Iraq. 


 Well, I have said repeatedly that if I had known then what I know now I never would have voted to give the president authority. And in the last debate, I said that, you know, it was a mistake to trust George Bush that he would do what he told all of us he would do. He made it in speeches, he told us in private that he would put the inspectors in to determine whether or not the International Atomic Energy Agency, the Clinton administration, many other countries who thought that there were stores of chemical and biological weapons were true or not. 

Now, I do not think that that is a necessarily wrong judgment at the time.
What was wrong is the way this president misused the authority that some of us
here gave him, and that has been a tragedy.


 Wolf, let -- 


 Wolf, let me add that we faced that in the Senate last year, as to whether we would or would not vote for it. The problem is that if it becomes official, instead of recognized as national, which indeed it is, it is our national language, if it becomes official, that means in a place like New York City you can't print ballots in any other language. That means you can't have government pay for translators in hospitals so when somebody comes in with some sort of emergency there's nobody there to help translate what their problem is for the doctors. 

So many of us -- I did, at least -- voted to say that English was our national
language but not the official language because of the legal consequences of
that.


 (Laughs.) 


 Well, I'm thrilled that universal health care is back on the national agenda. You know, as we remember back in '93 and '94, we tried to come forward with a plan. We weren't successful -- I have the scars to show for that experience. But I am convinced that now, when the Democrats all are coming forward saying this has to be a national goal, we then can try to get the political will. 

The most important thing is not the plan because there are only a few ways to
do this, and we're all talking pretty much about the same things.


 From my perspective, we have to lower costs, improve quality and cover everybody. 

What's important and what I learned in the previous effort is you've got to
have the political will -- a broad coalition of business and labor, doctors,
nurses, hospitals, everybody -- standing firm when the inevitable attacks come
from the insurance companies and the pharmaceutical companies that don't want
to change they system because they make so much money out of it.


 Well, Wolf, here's the -- here's the challenge: I have put forth approximately $120 billion in savings from health care changes that can come -- everything from electronic medical records to better management of chronic care. That is about in the ballpark of what all of us believe it will cost to cover everyone. 

The challenge that I'm wrestling with is how do we realize the savings? Now, I
don't think there is any Democrat that is not going to let the Bush tax cuts
on the wealthiest Americans expire. We're all going to do that, so that money
will be available. How, then, do we set forth the priorities that we want to
address, including energy efficiency, dealing with global climate change and
so much else?


 It was a transition policy, and it was an effort to try to deal with the reality that probably since the very beginning of our nation we've had gays serving in our military with distinction and honor on behalf of our country, as we do today. And yet I have watched how "don't ask, don't tell" has been implemented, and I've concluded that it is not the best way for us as a nation to proceed. 

It has been in many instances implemented in a discriminatory manner. You
know, after the first Gulf War, there was a big flood of discharges of gays
and lesbians because they let them serve, and then after they finished the
war, then they discharged them. In this particular time period, we've had
Arabic linguists discharged under "don't ask, don't tell" when we are,
unfortunately, so short of having people who speak the very language that our
men and women in uniform have to understand in the streets of Baghdad.

So I believe we could change the policy to let gays and lesbians serve in the
military and be covered by the Uniform Code of Military Justice so, just like
those who are not gays and lesbians, if there were conduct problems, then the
conduct problems would be looked at, but people would not be judged on who
they are.

And I just want to end by saying Barry Goldwater once said you don't have to
be straight to shoot straight, and I think he was right, and I believe we
should open up our military. (Applause.)


 (Laughs.) No. It was a(n) important first step, Wolf. I mean, you know, there is a -- I want to go back to my friend Joe Biden, because he's been around longer than any of us have in the Congress. 


 And, you know, talking -- (laughter) -- he's a young man, he started young. But talking about this as though there is a reality out there that a president or a Congress can change with the snap with a finger does a grave disservice to the American people. 

We have a political process. There's checks and balances, and Joe remembers
very well, the Congress was adamantly opposed at the time to letting gays and
lesbians serve openly. "Don't ask, don't tell" was the compromised policy.


 (Laughs.) 


 (Laughs.) 


 (Laughing.) 


 This is a fascinating question. They asked the Republicans, they ask the Democrats. And I think, from the perspective of what you've already heard, I believe in using former presidents. I think we should have everybody helping us to repair the damage of the last, by then, eight years. 

And when I -- (applause) -- when I become president, Bill Clinton, my dear
husband, will be one of the people who will be sent around the world as a
roving ambassador to make it very clear to the rest of the world that we're
back to a policy of reaching out and working and trying to make friends and
allies and stopping the alienation of the rest of the world.

There's not a problem we face, from global terrorism to global warming or HIV-
AIDS or bird flu or tuberculosis, where we don't need friends and allies.


 And he would be a tremendous help in our country's effort to redo that again. 


 Well, I am very concerned about Iran, and I believe that we should have been using diplomacy for a number of years now. I am I guess pleased that the administration is starting to talk to the Iranians, but it is way overdue. We have allowed the Iranians to begin their nuclear program, to imprison Iranian Americans as they are now, to send weapons across their borders to be used against our young men and women, and we need a process of engagement. 

You know, the president's policy has been, we don't talk in this
administration to people we don't agree with or that we think are bad. All
during the Cold War, we always talked to the Soviet Union. They had missiles
pointed at us. They had leaders who said they would bury us. They waged wars
around the world. We never stopped talking.

In my administration, diplomacy -- patient, careful diplomacy, the kind of
diplomacy that Bill Richardson did for my husband, that really gets people to
stay with it over time.

Are you always going to get good results? No. But you've got to start the
process. However, we still have to make it clear that Iran having a nuclear
weapon is absolutely unacceptable.


 We have to try to prevent that at all costs. (Applause.) But we need to start with diplomacy in order to see what we can accomplish. 


 Wolf, I'm not going to get into hypotheticals, because we've had an administration that doesn't believe in diplomacy. You know, they have every so often Condi Rice go around the world and show up somewhere and make a speech. And occasionally they even send Dick Cheney, and that's hardly diplomatic, in my view. (Laughter.) So from what I would say -- (applause) -- we won't know until we get a president who is committed to diplomacy and will do things like use the great diplomats that have come up through our country; use former presidents, use people like Bill Richardson. Only then will we be able to make a clear assessment. 

I just hope we have enough time, because unfortunately, we have many months to
go before this administration is done.


 Well, it's a really important question, because we have been supporting Pakistan through President Musharraf now for a number of years. And it is clear that he has not moved toward democracy but has solidified his rule and become quite antidemocratic with his removal of the chief justice and many of the other moves that he's taken. 

At the same time, we depend upon him to try to control the tribal areas, out
of which come the resurgent Taliban and al Qaeda fighters who cross the border
into Afghanistan.

Again, this is an area where I think the United States needs to be just
focused like the proverbial laser.

When I was in Pakistan and Afghanistan in January, I met with both President
Karzai and President Musharraf, and I asked them if it would help to have a
high-level presidential envoy working with both of them to try to figure out
how we can move toward what our American interests and how we can keep
Pakistan from undermining the war against the Taliban and al Qaeda.


 And unfortunately, when I got back and I called the White House and I made this suggestion, it fell on deaf ears. 

So there's a lot we need to do, and it's a very difficult, thorny problem how
to address it.


 Yeah, I mean part of this is one of these hypotheticals, Wolf -- 


 \-- that is very difficult to answer in the abstract. You know, my husband actually tried to take out bin Laden. You know, he did fire missiles at a training camp that we had intelligence that that's where bin Laden was, because by that time, bin Laden had already bombed our embassies, bin Laden had already demonstrated his hostility towards the United States. 

But you can't just -- you have to be very careful about how you proceed. So,
you know, yes, if we could do it without a tremendous amount of collateral
damage, I think maybe with one or two exceptions, we would give the order to
do it --


 \-- knowing what a weighty responsibility that is. 


 Are we talking about a no-fly zone? 

(Cross talk.) (Laughter.)


 Yeah, a no-fly zone, absolutely. Ask about a no- fly zone, and I think you'll get -- 


 I'm behind Joe's policy. 


 Well, but, Wolf, we're not going to engage in these hypotheticals. I mean, one of the jobs of a president is being very reasoned in approaching these issues, and I don't think it's useful to be talking in these kind of abstract, hypothetical terms. 


 And I think that -- (applause) -- 


 (Laughs.) 


 Wolf. 


 Well, I think it's important to remember that six years ago we had a balanced budget and a surplus, and we did that -- (applause) -- the old-fashioned way, by cutting spending and raising revenues. There is no free lunch. We're going to have to do that hard work again. 

Now, my point is, when it comes to the tax questions that were asked, the
benefits from the Bush tax cuts have gone disproportionately to a very small
percentage of Americans. And 10 percent of Americans have realized about 50
percent of the increase in wealth that has happened in this country in the
last six years. We need to deal with the burden on the middle class. The
Alternative Minimum Tax has to be reformed, hopefully eventually eliminated.
But I think it's important to point out that we have done this before, not in
ancient history, but within our memory, and we can do it again once we have a
Democratic president.


 Well, if President Bush has not ended the war in Iraq, to bring our troops home. 

That would be the very first thing that I would do. (Applause.)


 Well, thank you for that question. And it is abundantly clear, especially today, that race and racism are defining challenges not only in the United States but around the world. You know, we have made progress. You can look at this stage and see an African American, a Latino, a woman contesting for the presidency of the United States. But there is so much left to be done. And for anyone to assert that race is not a problem in America is to deny the reality in front of our very eyes. (Applause.) 

You can look at the thousands of African-Americans left behind by their
government with Katrina. You can look at the opportunity gap, the Cradle to
Prison Superhighway that The Covenant talks about, and you can look at this
decision today, which turned the clock back on the promise of Brown v. Board
of Education, that was resting on the fact that children are better off if
they are a part of a diverse, integrated society.

So, yes, we have come a long way, but, yes, we have a long way to go. The
march is not finished, and I hope that all of us, the Democratic candidates,
will demonstrate clearly that the work is yet to be done. And we call on
everyone to be foot soldiers in that revolution to finish the job. (Cheers,
applause.)


 Well, I really believe that it takes a village to raise a child -- (applause) -- and the American village has failed our children. 

We have heard absolutely the right prescription. I have fought for more than
35 years for early childhood education, for more mentoring, for more parent
education programs, to get our children off to a good start. I have fought to
make sure that schools were fair to all children. That's the work I did in
Arkansas, to try to raise the standards particularly for the poorest of our
children, and most especially for minority children. And certainly in the
White House years, and now in the Senate, I've continued that effort because I
don't think there is a more important issue.

But I also believe we cannot separate the education part from the economic
part. There is still discrimination in the workplace. There are still people
who are turned down and turned away who have qualifications and skills that
should make them employable. (Applause.) So this is a broader issue that we
have to address.


 That was good. That was good, Tavis. 

You know, it is hard to disagree with anything that has been said, but let me
just put this in perspective. If HIV/AIDS were the leading cause of death of
white women between the ages of 25 and 34, there would be an outraged outcry
in this country. (Cheers, applause.)

So let me quickly say -- before I get compared to Paris Hilton -- (laughter)
-- that yes, we have to do all of this, and I'm working on this. I'm working
to get Medicaid to cover treatment. I'm working to raise the budget for Ryan
White, which the Bush administration has kept flat, disgracefully so, because
there are a lot of women, particularly, who are becoming infected in poor
rural areas as well as underserved urban areas in states where, frankly, their
state governments won't give them medical care.

So this is a multiple dimension problem. But if we don't begin to take it
seriously and address it the way we did back in the '90s, when it was
primarily a gay men's disease, we will never get the services and the public
education that we need. (Cheers, applause.)


 Well, I clearly think that our economy was working a lot better in the 1990s. We had the creation of 22 million new jobs, a balanced budget and a surplus. And certainly when the Bush administration came in, they were determined to tilt the balance back toward the privileged. 

We are paying a very big price for this, because middle-class and working
families are paying a much higher percentage of their income. That was Warren
Buffett's position, that he pays about 17 percent, because don't forget, it's
the payroll tax plus the income tax. And when you cut off the contribution at
$90,000, $95,000, that's a lot of money between 95,000 (dollars) and the 46
million (dollars) that Warren Buffett made last year. And he's honest enough
to say, look, tax me, because I'm a patriotic American and I want to make sure
our country stays strong and is fair.

So, yes, we have to change the tax system, and we've got to get back to having
those with the most contribute to this country. (Applause.)


 In order to tackle this problem, we have to do all of these things. 

Number one, we do have to go after racial profiling. I've supported
legislation to try to tackle that.

Number two, we have to go after mandatory minimums. You know, mandatory
sentences for certain violent crimes may be appropriate, but it has been too
widely used. And it is using now a discriminatory impact.

Three, we need diversion, like drug courts. Non-violent offenders should not
be serving hard time in our prisons. They need to be diverted from our prison
system. (Applause.)

We need to make sure that we do deal with the distinction between crack and
powder cocaine. And ultimately we need an attorney general and a system of
justice that truly does treat people equally, and that has not happened under
this administration. (Applause.)


 I have proposed a 10-point Gulf Coast Recovery Agenda, because it's sort of as a chicken and an egg issue, Michel. 

First, we've got to get the hospitals back up. We've got to get the law
enforcement and the fire departments -- you know, right now this
administration has basically neglected with almost criminal indifference the
rebuilding of the Gulf Coast, in particular New Orleans and the parishes.

So even if we were to give people a right, there is nothing to return to. We
have got to rebuild New Orleans, and it's not only the protection from the
levees, it is all the infrastructure. And until very recently, the
administration would not give the people of New Orleans the same right we had
after 9/11, which was to get FEMA money without a 10 percent match.

And we finally got that changed, but it was outrageous that it took so long.
(Applause.)


 Well, outsourcing is a problem, and it's one that I've dealt with as a senator from New York. I started an organization called New Jobs for New York to try to stand against the tide of outsourcing, particularly from upstate New York and from rural areas. 

We have to do several things: end the tax breaks that still exist in the tax
code for outsourcing jobs, have trade agreements with enforceable labor and
environmental standards, help Americans compete, which is something we haven't
taken seriously, which goes back to the very first question about education
and skills. Let's not forget that 65 percent of kids at an age, cohort, do not
go on to college. What are we doing to help them get prepared for the jobs
that we could keep here that wouldn't be outsourced -- and find a new source
of jobs, clean energy, global warming, would create millions of new jobs for
Americans. (Applause.)


 There are three things we have to do immediately. Move the peacekeepers that finally the United Nations and the African Union have agreed to into Sudan as soon as possible. In order for them to be effective, there has to be airlift and logistical support, and that can only come either unilaterally from the United States or from NATO. I prefer NATO. And finally, we should have a no-fly zone over Sudan because the Sudanese governments bomb the villages before and after the Janjawid come. And we should make it very clear to the government in Khartoum we're putting up a no-fly zone; if they fly into it, we will shoot down their planes. Is the only way to get their attention. (Applause.) 


 Well, I think the Democrats are united, as Davis said, and we are united for change. We cannot take another four or eight years of Republican leadership that has been so disastrous for our country. The issue is, which of us is ready to lead on day one? 

I have 35 years of being an instrument, an agent of change, before I was ever
a public official. And during the time that I've been privileged to serve as
first lady and now as senator, I've worked to bring people together, to find
common ground where we can and then to stand our ground where we can't.
(Applause.)


 Well, Keith, I want to thank the AFL-CIO and MSNBC for having us here. You know, my late father was a fanatic Bears fan and the idea that any of his children would be on the 10-yard line in Soldier Field is an extraordinary accomplishment, as far as I'm concerned. (Laughter, whistling.) 

And I am very much in mind of those miners in Utah.

And we know, as Chris said, our hearts and prayers and hopes go with them as
this rescue effort continues.

We have to make investments in infrastructure. It's not only for the reasons
that Chris was talking, as important as they are. This will create jobs, not
only if we once again focus on our bridges, our tunnels, our ports, our
airports, our mass transit -- it will put millions of people to work -- but it
is also part of homeland security.

We need to have a better infrastructure in order to protect us. And it's not
only the physical infrastructure, it is the virtual infrastructure, like a
national broadband system that our police and firefighters can actually access
and use to be safe. So I think that we've got to look at this, with the
disaster that we see, from the levees of New Orleans to the bridge in
Minneapolis to what happened to us in New York City on 9/11, as the highest
priority, and it will be at the top of my list when I'm president. (Cheers,
applause.)


 Well, I had said that for many years, that, you know, NAFTA and the way it's been implemented has hurt a lot of American workers. In fact, I did a study in New York looking at the impact of NAFTA on business people, workers and farmers who couldn't get their products into Canada despite NAFTA. 

So, clearly we have to have a broad reform in how we approach trade. NAFTA's a
piece of it, but it's not the only piece of it.

I believe in smart trade. I've said that for years. Pro- American trade. Trade
that has labor and environmental standards, that's not a race to the bottom
but tries to lift up not only American workers but also workers around the
world.

It's important that we enforce the agreements we have. That's why I've called
for a trade prosecutor, to make sure that we do enforce them. The Bush
administration has been totally missing in action. They haven't been enforcing
the trade agreements at all.

It's important that we have good information to make judgments. And when I
looked at some of the trade agreements that the Bush administration sent our
way, I voted against CAFTA. I don't want to give fast-track authority to this
president.

So we've got to have a better approach to what we're going to do when it comes
to trade around the world. And it's important that we have an idea of how to
maximize the benefits from the global economy while minimizing the impact on
American workers. That includes things like real trade adjustment assistance
and other support.

But finally, Keith, we've got to have a source of new jobs. That's why we've
got to invest in energy. We can create millions of new jobs if we go toward
renewable energy. Those are not jobs that will be outsourced.


 Those are jobs that will actually save us money and create jobs right here in America. 


 Well, I am -- yeah, I'm just taking it all in. You know, I've noticed in the last few days that a lot of the other campaigns have been using my name a lot. But I'm here because I think we need to change America, and it's not to get in fights with Democrats. I want the Democrats to win, and I want a united Democratic Party that will stand against the Republicans. (Applause.) 

And I will say that for 15 years I have stood up against the right-wing
machine, and I've come out stronger. So if you want a winner who knows how to
take them on, I'm your girl. (Cheers, applause.)


 I want to say amen to Joe Biden, because he's 100 percent right. You know, six and a half years ago, we had a balanced budget and a surplus; now we are in deep debt with a rising deficit, and it is absolutely true that George Bush has put it on the credit card, expecting our children and grandchildren to pay for it. We've got to get back to fiscal responsibility in order to undercut the Chinese power over us because of the debt we hold. 

We also have to deal with their currency manipulation. We have to have tougher
standards on what they import into this country. I do not want to eat bad food
from China or have my children having toys that are going to get them sick. So
let's be tougher on China going forward. (Cheers, applause.)


 Well, I have a three-point plan to get out of Iraq, starting with redeploying our troops, but doing it responsibly and carefully, because as many of the veterans in this audience know, taking troops out can be just as dangerous as bringing them in. And we've got to get out of Iraq smarter than we got in. 

Secondly, we've got to put more pressure on the Iraqi government, including
withholding aid from them if they don't begin to stabilize the country
themselves. And thirdly, we need an intensive diplomatic effort, regionally
and internationally.

But if it is a possibility that al Qaeda would stay in Iraq, I think we need
to stay focused on trying to keep them on the run, as we currently are doing
in Al Anbar province.


 Well, you know, Keith, this is George Bush's war. He rushed us to war, he has mismanaged the war. But these are our sons and daughters who are serving in this war, and I had to think very long and hard because clearly I do not want to do anything that undercuts our support for them. But finally I just concluded that the only way to get a message to the Republicans and to George Bush was to vote against the supplemental funding. And it isn't an easy vote, and you could actually argue it either way. Those of us who were in the Senate, I think all acted sincerely and out of good faith trying to figure out what was best for our country. 

But at the end of the day, I have concluded, we've got to force George Bush to
begin to end the war that he took America into and save our young men and
women and bring them home. (Cheers, applause.)


 Well, I do not believe people running for president should engage in hypotheticals. And it may well be that the strategy we have to pursue on the basis of actionable intelligence -- but remember, we've had some real difficult experiences with actionable intelligence -- might lead to a certain action. 

But I think it is a very big mistake to telegraph that and to destabilize the
Musharraf regime, which is fighting for its life against the Islamic
extremists who are in bed with al Qaeda and Taliban. And remember, Pakistan
has nuclear weapons. The last thing we want is to have al Qaeda-like followers
in charge of Pakistan and having access to nuclear weapons.

So you can think big, but remember, you shouldn't always say everything you
think if you're running for president, because it has consequences across the
world. And we don't need that right now. (Chorus of boos.)


 Well, I want to thank all the questioners. You've been -- those of you watching on TV have seen a real snapshot of all of the problems in America. The pension system is broken. We've got to stop companies going into bankruptcy in order to get rid of their pension responsibilities. (Cheers, applause.) We have to have defined benefits pension plans again. We've got to make sure that nobody ever tries to privatize Social Security, something that I've fought tooth and nail with many of you to prevent. 

And I want to quickly say to the woman who lost her husband at the Sago mine,
Chris Dodd and I were on the committee that passed some very good laws. The
problem is we have an administration that doesn't want to enforce those laws.
When I am president, we'll have a Department of Labor that actually cares
about labor.

And when it comes to organizing at Resurrection Hospital, I will be the
president who signs the Employee Free Choice Act. (Cheers, applause.)

But let me also say -- (sustained applause) -- we will rebuild our
manufacturing sector, because you cannot have a strong government and economy
and society without manufacturing. And I am proud to be the New York AFL-CIO's
favorite sister because of all the work that I've done with our unions in New
York, and I will take that same commitment to the White House.


 Okay, in 30 seconds, let me take 15 seconds to answer the previous gentleman's question. 

I believe that I have supported a green building fund and green- collar job
training with the AFL-CIO that will put a lot of people too work, like the
insulator who just asked that question. And it's important that we do this,
because we can create millions of new jobs.

Specifically with No Child Left Behind, it has been a terrible imposition on
teachers and school districts and families and students. (Cheers, applause.)
And part of it is because it was not funded. It was an unfunded mandate. And
part of it is that the Department of Education under President Bush did not
absolutely enforce it and interpret it in the right way.

So we need growth models for students. We need broader curriculum. We need to
make sure that when we look at our children, we don't just see a little
walking test. We've got to have a total change in No Child Left Behind.


 Well, you know, Keith, I believe we've got to have fundamental reform in Washington. I'm in favor of, especially after Bush and Cheney and Rove, to clean up what they're leaving behind -- to end the no-bid contracts, the revolving door in government. I think it's absolutely essential that, you know, we get rid of all of the contracting out of government jobs, which has really undermined -- (cheers, applause) -- the quality of services. 

But you know, I think it is also the case that I have fought for all of these
issues against a lot of special interests for a very long time. I fought the
drug companies and the insurance companies in '93 and '94. I caught -- fought
them again on the Medicare prescription drug benefit. I fought the banks --


 \-- on bankruptcy reform. 

So I think that my record --


 \-- on standing up and fighting for people really speaks for itself. 


 Well, the first thing I would do is put somebody in charge who actually cared about the people of New Orleans and the Gulf Coast and was willing to really do what it took. (Cheers, applause.) 

You know, I outlined a 10-point plan -- we don't have 30 seconds -- I can't
say it in 30 seconds -- but briefly it is put somebody in charge, make sure
that the White House has a system where that person reports to the president,
which is what I would expect every single day.

And my question would be, what have you done to get the hospitals open? What
have you done to get people to move back? What have you done to make sure the
levees are strong enough to withstand whatever might come next?

We've got to recognize rebuilding New Orleans is an American problem, not a
New Orleans or Louisiana problem alone. (Cheers, applause.)


 You know, I think I'll be so busy, I'm just not going to worry about that. We're going to try to do national health care as soon as we get in there. We're going to have to bring people together to do that. We're going to move for energy independence and create those millions of new jobs. We're going to finally have an education policy that actually will work for students and teachers and families and communities. 

There's going to be so much work for America to do that if some people want to
go out and start running for president four years ahead of time, I don't care.
I want people to stay focused on what we have to accomplish together.

There's going to be a lot of repair work to do, and I'm going to ask people to
come to Washington. Bring your brooms. Bring your vacuum cleaners. We've got
to clean the place out and get to work together. (Cheers, applause.)


 Well, I don't think the Republicans got the message that I'm voting and sounding like them. If you watched their debate last week, I seemed to be the topic of great conversation and consternation, and that's for a reason, because I have stood against George Bush and his failed policies. 

They want to continue the war in Iraq; I want to end it. The Republicans are
waving their sabers and talking about going after Iran. I want to prevent a
rush to war. On every issue from health care for children to an energy policy
that puts us on the right track to deal with climate change and make us more
secure, I have been standing against the Republicans, George Bush and Dick
Cheney, and I will continue to do so. And I think Democrats know that.


 Well, I think that anyone who's looked at my record of 35 years fighting, for women and children and people who feel invisible and left out in this country, knows my record. I fought for expanded education and health care in Arkansas. I helped to bring health care to 6 million children while in the White House. And now, in the Senate, I've been standing up against the Republicans on everything from preventing them from privatizing Social Security to standing up against President Bush's veto of children's health. 

You know, I have a long record of standing up and fighting, and I take on the
special interests. I've been taking them on for many years. And I think all
you have to do is go back and -- and read the media to know that.

But on specific issues I've come out with very specific plans.

With respect to Social Security, I do have a plan. It's called start with
fiscal responsibility. That's what we were doing in the 1990s, and we had
Social Security on a much better path than it is today because of the
irresponsible spending policies of George Bush and the Republican Congress.

If there are some of the long-term challenges that we need to address, let's
do it in the context of having fiscal responsibility, and then let's put
together a bipartisan commission and look at how we're going to deal with
these long-term challenges. But I am not going to balance Social Security on
the backs of seniors and hardworking middle-class Americans. Let's start
taking the tax cuts away from the wealthy. Let's take away the no-bid
contracts from Halliburton before we start imposing a trillion-dollar tax
increase on the elderly and on middle-class workers. I don't think that's
necessary.

So I have a very specific plan. My friends may not agree with it, but I've
been saying it and talking about it for many months.


 Well, first of all, I am against a rush to war. I was the first person on this stage and one of the very first in the Congress to go to the floor of the Senate back in February and say George Bush had no authority to take any military action in Iran. 

Secondly, I am not in favor of this rush for war, but I'm also not in favor of
doing nothing. Iran is seeking nuclear weapons, and the Iranian Revolutionary
Guard is in the forefront of that, as they are in the sponsorship of
terrorism. So some may want a false choice between rushing to war -- which is
the way the Republicans sound; it's not even a question of whether, it's a
question of when and what weapons to use -- and doing nothing. I prefer
vigorous diplomacy, and I happen to think economic sanctions are part of
vigorous diplomacy. We use them with respect to North Korea. We use them with
respect to Libya. And many of us who voted for that resolution said that this
is not anything other than an expression of support for using economic
sanctions with respect to diplomacy.

You know, several people who were adamantly opposed to the war in Iraq, like
Senator Durbin, voted the same way I did and said at the time that if he
thought there was even the pretense that could be used from the language in
that non-binding resolution to give George Bush any support to go to war, he
wouldn't have voted for it. Neither would I.

So we can argue about what is a non-binding sense of the Senate, and I think
that we are missing the point, which is we've got to do everything we can to
prevent George Bush and the Republicans from doing something on their own to
take offensive military action against Iran. I'm prepared to pass legislation
that -- with my colleagues who are here in the Congress, to try to get some
Republicans to join us, to make it abundantly clear that sanctions and
diplomacy are the way to go; we reject and do not believe George Bush has any
authority to do anything else.


 Well, first of all, we have to try diplomacy, and I see economic sanctions as part of diplomacy. We've used it with other very difficult situations, like Libya, like North Korea, and I think that what we're trying to do here is put pressure on the Bush administration. Joe's absolutely right -- George Bush can do all of this without anybody. You know, that's the great tragedy, and that's why we've got to rein him in, and that's why we need Republican support in the Congress to help us do so. And I invite all of our colleagues to pass something immediately that makes it very clear he has no authority and we will not permit him to go take offensive action against Iran. 

But what we're trying to do is push forward on vigorous diplomacy. That has
been lacking.

I believe we should be engaged in diplomacy right now with the Iranians.
Everything should be on the table, not just their nuclear program. I've been
advocating this for several years, I believe it strongly, but I also think
when you go to the table to negotiate with an adversarial regime, you need
both carrots and sticks. The Revolutionary Guard is deeply involved in the
commercial activities of Iran. Having those economic sanctions hanging over
their heads gives our negotiators one of the set of sticks that we need to try
to make progress in dealing with a very complicated complicated situation.

Everybody agrees up here that President Bush has made a total mess out of the
situation with Iran. What we're trying to do is to sort our way through to try
to put diplomacy, with some carrots and some sticks, into the mix and get the
president to begin to do that.


 I want to start diplomacy. You know, I am not going to speculate about when or if they get nuclear weapons. We're trying to prevent them from getting so. We're not, in my view, rushing to war. We should not be doing that. But we shouldn't be doing nothing. 

And that means we should not let them acquire nuclear weapons, and the best
way to prevent that is a full-court press on the diplomatic front.


 I intend to do everything I can to prevent Iran from developing a nuclear bomb. 


 I am pledging I will do everything I can to prevent Iran from developing a nuclear bomb. 


 Well, you know, Tim, you asked me if I would pledge, and I have pledged that I will do everything I can -- (laughter) -- to prevent Iran from developing a nuclear bomb. 


 Absolutely but I do not, and I don't think any of us do, oppose the brave young men and women who have fought this war with such distinction and heroism. 

You know, I have said repeatedly that I will begin to bring our troops home as
soon as I am president, because it is abundantly clear that President Bush
does not intend to end the war while he is still president. In order to do
that, we're going to have to get the Joint Chiefs and my secretary of Defense
and advisers together to start the planning, to move as quickly as possible,
because I don't believe that the planning has been sufficiently undertaken in
the Pentagon under this administration. But we've got to do more. We have to
try to get the Iraqi government to understand its obligations, because there
is no military solution, and they have thus far failed to do so.

And finally, we need to engage in diplomacy with respect to Iraq. You know, we
have a big diplomatic apparatus. This president doesn't use it. He relies on a
very small group of people. I think that's a terrible mistake. In addition to
the Foreign Service officers, I would bring in a lot of other distinguished
Americans who have experience, people, you know, like my colleagues Bill and
Joe and Chris.

We need a lot of Americans trying to fan out across the world following
President Bush because he's going to leave so many problems. His policies have
alienated our friends and emboldened our enemies. And Iraq and Iran are
tinderboxes, the Middle East, Pakistan. I agree with Joe. The Afghanistan
situation. Everywhere you look in the world, we've got work to do. And I think
we've got to do more than just send our young men and women out. That is not
an appropriate use of their power.


 May I -- well, I -- I need to rebut this. I don't know where to start. 

Number one, when we talk about combat missions in Iraq, my understanding is
that we had the same agreement, most of us, on this stage, that we would bring
out combat troops, but we would pursue a mission against al Qaeda in Iraq if
they remained a threat. Now, I don't know how you pursue al Qaeda without
engaging them in combat. So I think we're having a semantic difference here.

I think we should get as many of the combat troops out as quickly as possible.
If we leave any troops in, like Special Operations, to go after al Qaeda in
Iraq, I assume that we don't want them just sitting around and watching them;
we want them to engage them. That is a very limited mission. That is what I
have said consistently.

And you know, when it comes to where I stand, I have been explaining that to
the American people. I stand for ending the war in Iraq, bringing our troops
home. But I also know it's going to be complicated, and it's going to take
time. And I intend to do it in a responsible manner that is as safe for our
troops as possible. We're going to have troops remaining there, guarding our
embassy. We may have a continuing training mission, and we may have a mission
against al Qaeda in Iraq. So that's a very big difference than having the
160,000 troops that George Bush has there today.


 Well, I think the kind of experience that the Republican nominees are exhibiting is the kind of experience we don't need. And I think my experience of 35 years as an advocate for children and families, as a citizen activist, as someone who helped to bring educational reform and health care reform to Arkansas, bringing the Children's Health Insurance Program to fruition during the years in the White House, my time in the Senate, I think my experience on both ends of Pennsylvania Avenue -- but it's really about what's at stake in this election and who can deliver the change that we all know this country desperately needs. 

And in a perverse way, I think that, you know, the Republicans and their
constant obsession with me demonstrates clearly that they obviously think that
I am communicating effectively about what I will do as president.

And I am trying to do that because it matters greatly. We've got to turn the
page on George Bush and Dick Cheney. In fact, we have to throw the whole book
away. This has been a disastrous period in American history, and we hope it
will be aberration. Then we need to get back to doing what will work again
here at home and around the world.

And I've set forth big goals to restore America's leadership, to once again
rebuild a strong and prosperous middle class, to reform our government, and to
reclaim the future for our children, and that means ending the war in Iraq,
having an energy policy that works and creates jobs, having health care for
everyone, having an education system from pre-kindergarten to college
affordability and so much more.


 Well, actually, Tim, the Archives is moving as rapidly as the Archives moves. There's about 20 million pieces of paper there and they are moving, and they are releasing as they do their process. And I am fully in favor of that. 

Now, all of the records, as far as I know, about what we did with health care,
those are already available. Others are becoming available. And I think that,
you know, the Archives will continue to move as rapidly as the circumstances
and processes demand.


 Well, that's not my decision to make. And I don't believe that any president or first lady has. But certainly we'll move as quickly as our circumstances and the processes of the National Archives permits. 


 Well, I think we were making progress in the 1990s, and I'm very proud of the progress we're making until, unfortunately, the Supreme Court handed the presidency to George Bush. And we have been living with the consequences ever since. And I think it is time for us to step up and say we're going to change the way Washington works. And I've laid out very specific plans about how to do that. I'm going to take $10 billion away from a lot of these industries, starting with money from the HMOs that are getting too much out of Medicare, starting with the no-bid contracts for Halliburton, starting with the defense industry that needs to be pared down and reined in. I've been very clear about that, and I intend to implement that. 

You know, change is just a word if you don't have the strength and experience
to actually make it happen.


 Well, Tim, I don't. I have said consistently that my plan for Social Security is fiscal responsibility first, then to deal with any long-term challenges which, I agree, are ones that we're going to have to address. We would have a bipartisan commission. In the context of that, I think all of these would be considered. 

But personally I do not want to balance Social Security on the backs of our
seniors and middle class families. That's why I put fiscal responsibility
first, because we have to change the Bush tax cuts, which I am committed to
doing. We have to move back toward a more fair and progressive tax system and
begin once again to move toward a balanced budget with a surplus.

You know, part of the idea in the '90s was not just so Bill would have a check
mark next to his name in history, but so that we would have the resources to
deal with a lot of these entitlement problems. George Bush understood that,
the Republicans understood that. They wanted to decimate that balanced budget
and a surplus because they knew that that would give them a free hand to try
to privatize Social Security. I am not going to be repeating Republican
talking points.

So when somebody asks me, would something like this be considered? Well,
anything can be considered when we get to a bipartisan commission, but
personally, I am not going to be advocating any specific fix until I am
seriously approaching fiscal responsibility.


 Well, but everybody knows what the possibilities are, Tim. Everybody knows that. But I do not -- I do not advocate it, I do not support it. I have laid out what I do believe, and I'm going to continue to emphasize that. I think for us to act like Social Security is in crisis is a Republican trap. We're playing on the Republican field, and I don't intend to do that. 


 No, but what he did was to move us toward a balanced budget and a surplus. And if you go back and you look at the numbers, they really took off, starting in '98, '99, 2000, 2001. And that would have given a president who actually believed in Social Security, which George Bush does not, the resources and the options to make decisions, but not the kind of draconian decisions and certainly not the move toward privatization, which is what the Republicans have been advocating for as long as I can remember. 


 Well, Tim, I don't see any difference here. 

You know, my view is we go toward fiscal responsibility, which is hard. It's
not going to be easy inheriting what we're going to be inheriting from Bush
and the Republicans. And there are some long- term challenges. I have no
disagreement with that.

But I think the best way to handle them is within the context of a bipartisan
commission. That's what worked in 1983, when Social Security was on the ropes.
Our colleagues in the Senate had a hearing today talking about how they could
move toward a bipartisan commission.

And once there's a bipartisan commission, then we can see what we need to do.
But I don't want these decisions to be made in a vacuum.

I want it to be made in the face of moving back toward fiscal responsibility
because that will influence which choices are actually better, and I certainly
don't want to impose a trillion dollar tax increase in middle-class families
or any kind of additional burdens our seniors.


 Well, I agree with everything that my colleagues have just said. I think it's important that we do have enough money in LIHEAP. It's a battle we fight every year against the Republicans -- that's the program to help consumers pay their bills. We should have a crash program on weatherization, which will help to drive those bills down. We need to do more to investigate, as John says, and we might even have to look at the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, which the Bush administration has been filling up beyond any expectation of need, for the short term at least. But we also have to have a serious move toward energy efficiency and conservation, and that is where we need to get people to be more conscious to do it for themselves. 


 Well, I am a great admirer of Chairman Rangel, and what he's trying to do is deal with a very serious problem. You know, the Alternative Minimum Tax was never intended to hit people who are in middle income, upper-middle income. It was meant for people who are rich and evading taxes. 

Now, I don't know all the details of what Charlie is recommending, but I
certainly agree with the goal. We've got to do something with the Alternative
Minimum Tax. There are a lot of ways of getting there. I want it to be fair
and progressive. It starts in the House. It starts in the Ways and Means
Committee, which he chairs.

But I think my husband was expressing an opinion that a lot of people who have
been very fortunate and blessed over the last six years feel. You know, we've
not been asked to sacrifice anything. You know, young men and women wearing
the uniform of our country are dying and being maimed. We have the average
American family losing $1,000 in income, and George Bush and his cronies can't
figure out how they can give even more tax cuts to the wealthiest of
Americans.

Now, I never thought Bill and I would be in that category, to be honest with
you. So it's kind of a new experience but it's not one that makes us very
comfortable, because we should be investing in new energy. We should be
investing in college affordability, universal pre-K, the kind of health care
plan that I've outlined. That's what we intend to do.

But we're going to have to deal with the AMT, something that the Republicans
have refused to do because, very frankly, it hits people who are below their
concern. They're concerned about the real top wage-earners. This hits people
that are -- you know, the police chief. This hits people that are, you know,
two-income families that are doing well.

So we're going to have to do something about it. I think Charlie's being very
courageous in moving forward. I don't agree with all the details, but he's on
the right track to say we've got to do something about the AMT.


 No, I didn't say that, Tim. I said that I'm in favor of doing something about the AMT. How we do it and how we put the package together, everybody knows, is extremely complicated. It's not going to happen while George Bush is president; everybody knows that. I want to get to a fair and progressive tax system. The AMT has to be part of what we try to change when I'm president. 

And there are a lot of moving pieces here. You know, there are kinds of issues
we're going to deal with as the tax cuts expire. I want to freeze the estate
tax at the 2009 level of 7 million (dollars) for a couple. There's a lot of
moving parts.

So I'm not going to get committed to a specific approach, but I applaud
Chairman Rangel for beginning the conversation.


 No. No, I -- that's Charlie Rangel's plan, and as I say, I support and admire his willingness to take this on. 


 Well, very quickly, I would start at the very beginning. We need to do more to help our families prepare their children. A family is a child's first school. The parents are a child's first teacher. This is something that I've worked on for many years. 

We need to really support it through nurse visitation or social worker, child
care. We need to do more with the pre-Kindergarten program that I have
proposed.

In addition, though, this has to fit into an overall innovation agenda which I
have also set forth because we can't just say go to school longer. We need to
do what happened when I was in school and Sputnik went up and our teacher
said, your president wants you study math and science. That's what I want kids
today to feel, that it's part of making sure we maintain our quality of life
and our standard of living.


 Well, again, I agree with everything that has been said. In my proposal for the American Health Choices plan, we basically give the insurance companies an ultimatum. They have to get into the business of actually providing insurance instead of trying to avoid covering people. They cannot deny people coverage; they cannot exist -- have a pre-existing condition which is not covered. That is one of the biggest problems that doctors face. They face this constant barrage of harassment and bureaucratization from the private insurance world. 

We also need to clean up Medicare and Medicaid. They're not as friendly as
they need to be either.


 Well, what Governor Spitzer is trying to do is fill the vacuum left by the failure of this administration to bring about comprehensive immigration reform. We know in New York we have several million at any one time who are in New York illegally. They are undocumented workers. They are driving on our roads. The possibility of them having an accident that harms themselves or others is just a matter of the odds. It's probability. So what Governor Spitzer is trying to do is to fill the vacuum. 

I believe we need to get back to comprehensive immigration reform because no
state, no matter how well-intentioned, can fill this gap.

There needs to be federal action on immigration reform.


 I just want to add, I did not say that it should be done, but I certainly recognize why Governor Spitzer is trying to do it. And we have failed -- 


 No, I didn't, Chris. But the point is, what are we going to do with all these illegal immigrants who are (driving ?) -- (inaudible)? 


 Well, you may say that, but what is the identification if somebody runs into you today who is an undocumented worker -- 


 Well, but -- 


 Well, what Governor Spitzer has agreed to do is to have three different licenses; one that provides identification for actually going onto airplanes and other kinds of security issues, another which is an ordinary driver's license, and then a special card that identifies the people who would be on the road. 


 So it's not the full privilege. 


 It -- 


 You know, Tim, this is where everybody plays gotcha. It makes a lot of sense. What is the governor supposed to do? He is dealing with a serious problem. We have failed, and George Bush has failed. 

Do I think this is the best thing for any governor to do? No. But do I
understand the sense of real desperation, trying to get a handle on this?
Remember, in New York we want to know who's in New York. We want people to
come out of the shadows. He's making an honest effort to do it. We should have
passed immigration reform.


 I'm going to do everything I can to do that. I went to Lance Armstrong's cancer symposium in Iowa and it was a very moving experience -- not only people like us speaking but a lot of cancer survivors, a lot of researchers. 

It's just outrageous that under President Bush, the National Institutes of
Health has been basically decreased in funding. We are on the brink of so many
medical breakthroughs, and I will once again fund that research, get those
applications processed, get those young researchers in those labs to know that
we're going to tackle cancer and try to do everything we can to drive its
death rate down.


 Well, Campbell, I am happy to be here tonight. And this pantsuit is asbestos tonight. (Laughter.) So, I -- I am aware that some people say that, but I think that the American people know where I've stood for 35 years. I've been fighting for issues affecting women and children, workers and families. I've been fighting for universal health care. And I know that people are looking at this campaign and evaluating us, and I've put forth very specific policies about what I will do as president, because this has to be a big election. This is going to be one of the most important elections we've ever had in our country's history, and it is important that we have a candidate who is tested and a president who is ready to lead from day one. And I'm perfectly comfortable leaving these assessments up to the American people to make their judgments among us. 


 Well, I hear what Senator Obama is saying, and he talks a lot about stepping up and taking responsibility and taking strong positions. But when it came time to step up and decide whether or not he would support universal health care coverage, he chose not to do that. His plan would leave 15 million Americans out. That's about the population of Nevada, Iowa, South Carolina and New Hampshire. 

I have a universal health care plan that covers everyone. I've been fighting
this battle against the special interest for more than 15 years, and I am
proud to fight this battle. You know, we can have a different politic, but
let's not forget here that the people who we're against are not going to be
giving up without a fight. The Republicans are not going to vacate the White
House voluntarily. We have some big issues ahead of us, and we need someone
who is tested and ready to lead. I think that's what my candidacy offers.
(Cheers, applause.)


 Wolf, I -- Wolf, I cannot let that go unanswered. 

You know, the most important thing here is to level with the American people.
Senator Obama's health care plan does not cover everyone. He starts with
children, which is admirable -- I helped to create the Children's Health
Insurance Program back in 1997. I'm totally committed -- (applause) --


 \-- to making sure every single child is covered. He does not mandate the kind of coverage that I do. And I provide a health care tax credit under my American Health Choices Plan so that every American will be able to afford the health care. I open up the congressional plan. But there is a big difference between Senator Obama and me. He starts from the premise of not reaching universal health care. 


 Well, Wolf, I've just been personally attacked again. 


 And I -- thank you. Yes. 


 Well, you know, I respect all of my colleagues on this stage -- (laughter) -- and, you know, we're Democrats and we're trying to nominate the very best person we can to win. And I don't mind taking hits on my record, on issues, but when somebody starts throwing mud, at least we can hope that it's both accurate and not right out of the Republican playbook because what I -- (cheers, applause) -- what I believe is important is that we put forth what we stand for. I have been active for 35 years. The American people know where I stand. 

You know, Senator Edwards raised health care again. When Senator Edwards ran
in 2004, he wasn't for universal health care. I'm glad he is now. But for him
to be throwing this mud and making these charges, I think, really detracts
from what we're trying to do here tonight. We need to put forth a positive
agenda for America -- (cheers, applause) --


 \-- telling people what we're going to do when we get the chance to go back to the White House. 


 Absolutely yes. 


 No. 


 Well, I support school-based merit pay for a lot of the reasons Chris was talking about. We need to get more teachers to go into hard-to-serve areas. We've got to get them into underserved urban areas, underserved rural areas. 

But the school is a team, and I think it's important that we reward that
collaboration. You know, a child who moves from kindergarten to sixth grade,
say, in the same school, every one of those teachers is going to affect that
child.


 Wolf, you need to weed out the teachers who are not doing a good job. I mean, that's the bottom line. (Applause.) They should not be teaching our children. 

I mean, what I believe so strongly is that our education system has served
this country very well. But we're in the 21st century. We do need to re-
imagine it. We've got to get everybody to talk about it. But what I object to
with the Bush administration is it's always talking down. We need to have a
collegial collaboration. And the teachers need to be at the table --


 \-- helping us figure out what the best way is to achieve our goals. 


 I agree with that completely. I mean the first obligation of the president of the United States is to protect and defend the United States of America. That doesn't mean that it is to the exclusion of other interests. 

And there's absolutely a connection between a democratic regime and heightened
security for the United States. That's what's so tragic about this situation.
After 9/11, President Bush had a chance to chart a different course, both in
Pakistan and in Afghanistan, and could have been very clear about what our
expectations were. We are now in a bind, and it is partly -- not completely,
but partly -- a result of the failed policies of the Bush administration.

So, where we are today means that we have to say to President Musharraf: Look,
this is not in your interest either. This is not in the interest of the United
States. It is not in your interest to either stay in power or stay alive. We
have to figure out how we're going to navigate this.

When I was meet ing with him earlier this year, I asked him if he would accept
a high-level presidential envoy to begin to negotiate some of these issues.

He said, yes, I got back; I called the White House; I asked them to send such
a high-level envoy. They did not do it; they're going to send one now.

So I mean, you've got to stay on top of this and you have to manage it all the
time. That requires presidential attention. We haven't had that, and part of
the reason is obvious now. (Cheers, applause.)


 All I can remember from that is a bunch of charts. (Laughter.) That sort of is a vague memory. 

Look, NAFTA did not do what many had hoped, and so we do need to take a look
at it and we do need to figure out how we're going to have trade relations
that are smart, that give the American worker and the American consumer rights
around the world.

And I want to go back to Campbell's question for a minute because it's really
related to this. It is something that every parent should be worried about.
It's not only the toys; it's the pet food, it's the medical components and
prescription drugs. If we don't impose a third-party, independent
investigative arm on our corporations that do business in China as well as the
Chinese government, we should not permit any items to be imported into our
country until we're sure they're safe. (Applause.) I mean, that to me is rule
number one. (Applause.)


 NAFTA was a mistake to the extent that it did not deliver on what we had hoped it would, and that's why I call for a trade timeout when I am president. I'm going to evaluate every trade agreement. We do need to get back to enforcing the ones we have, which the Bush administration has not done. They have totally abdicated that. But I think we have to get broader than that. We've got to have enforceable labor and environmental standards. We've got the WTO that enforces financial and corporate rights; we need the International Labor Organization and other mechanisms that will be there to enforce labor rights and environmental rights, and that's what I intend to do as president. (Cheers, applause.) 


 Well, I'm not exploiting anything at all. I'm not playing, as some people say, the gender card here in Los Vegas. I'm just trying to play the winning card, and I understand well that -- (cheers, applause) -- people are not attacking me because I'm a woman. They're attacking me because I'm ahead, and I understand -- (interrupted by laughter, cheers) -- that -- you know, as Harry Truman famously said, "If you can't stand the heat, get out of the kitchen." (Cheers.) And I feel very comfortable in the kitchen, and I'm going to -- (laughter) -- you know, withstand the heat. 

But you know, this is really one of the kind of issues that we can laugh about
because it's exciting when you look at this field of candidates.

You know, several of us would never have had a chance to stand here and run
for president -- a Latino, an African American, a woman -- if it hadn't been
for the progress of America over my lifetime. (Cheers, applause.) And I am
thrilled to be running to be the first woman president.


 Campbell. (Laughter.) 


 Well, it is clear, I think, from women's experiences that from time to time, there may be some impediments. (Laughter.) And it has been my goal over the course of my lifetime to be part of this great movement of progress, that includes all of us but has particularly been significant to me as a woman. And to be able to aim toward the highest, hardest glass ceiling is history- making. 

Now, I'm not running because I'm a woman. I'm running because I think I'm the
best qualified and experienced person to hit the ground running. (Cheers,
applause.) But it's humbling. It's inspiring.

And I have to tell you, as I travel around the country, you know, fathers
drive hours to bring their daughters to my events. And so many women in their
90s wait to shake my hand. And they say something like, I'm 95 years old; I
was born before women could vote, and I want to live long enough to see a
woman in the White House.


 I do. 


 Well, I'll tell you what I'm for, and I think Judy raises two really important issues. I am for getting back to fiscal responsibility. I think I counted you said "deficit" three times. Six and a half years ago when George Bush came into office, he inherited a balanced budget and a surplus -- (applause) -- and the Social Security system was on a path to be solvent into 2055. 

We have long-term challenges with Social Security. We have a crisis with
Medicare, just like we have a crisis with health care costs. We have a crisis
with energy costs. We have a lot of very intense challenges we have to meet
right now. So what I want to do is move back toward fiscal responsibility. I
think if we don't do that, we're not going to deal with any of these problems
adequately. Then I think we will demonstrate that we're serious about getting
our house in order again --


 \-- and then I think we have to have a bipartisan commission. I do not want to fix the problems of Social Security on the backs of middle class families and seniors. (Applause.) If you lift the cap completely, that is a $1 trillion tax increase. I don't think we need to do that. 

But I want to say one final word about Medicare. Number one, Medicare should
be able to negotiate for lower drug prices. (Applause.)


 It was a travesty when the Bush administration did not allow that to happen, and I have a lot of other ideas about how we'll preserve and strengthen Medicare. 


 First of all -- first of all, I think that you meant a tax increase, because that's what it would be. But secondly, it is absolutely the case that there are people who would find that burdensome. I represent firefighters. I represent school supervisors. I'm not talking -- I mean, you know, it's different parts of the country. So you have to look at this across the board, and the numbers are staggering. 

Now, when people say be specific, I listened very carefully to what Senator
Obama said when he appeared on one of the Sunday morning shows, and he
basically said that he was for looking at a lot of different things and using
a bipartisan commission to do it. I think that's the right answer. That is
where I have been from the very beginning.

That's what worked back in 1983, when we had a real crisis in Social Security.
The government got together. President Reagan and Speaker Tip O'Neill put
together a bipartisan commission. Then everybody looked at everything at once.
It wasn't one person's idea or somebody else's idea. Everybody had to get in a
room and say, here's what we're going to do to fix the problem. That's what I
want to do because I think that's what will work for America. (Applause.)


 Well, they'd have to share my view about privacy, and I think that goes hand in hand. Privacy, in my opinion, is embedded in our Constitution. What does it mean to have a right to free speech or the right to worship as you choose if you also don't have the right to be left alone, to have that privacy that goes with being an American? (Applause.) So it would be absolutely critical. 

And I, like Senator Biden --


 Yes, the answer is yes. And -- 


 But I -- I just want to say, Senator Biden really deserves a lot of plaudits because he knows this issue forwards and backwards. And I think it's important to have a president who understands the intricate connections of our branches of government and the Constitution. 

I think that's one of the great tragedies of George Bush's presidency is he
didn't really understand the way our government was supposed to work. (Cheers,
applause.)


 Well, I say that I am running to be the president of the entire country. You know, when I started running for the Senate in New York, I heard the same things. 

And what I did was to reach out to Republicans, Democrats, independents,
rural, urban because we've got to begin to work together. That's what I've
tried to do in the Senate working across party lines, trying to find common
ground; to go back to Chris, you know, working to get health care for Guard
and Reservists with a colleague, a Republican colleague from South Carolina.
You know, you have to look to find common ground, and it is the responsibility
of a leader to try to make that possible.

Now, that doesn't mean there won't be differences because there are. We're not
going to wake up the day after the election and not believe what we believe
and not see the world as we see it, but we can certainly begin under
presidential leadership to listen to one another, to look for those chances to
find that common ground and work together. That's the kind of president I will
be, and I will spend a lot of my time working with not just Republicans, but
people who aren't in public life. We've got smart people all over this country
who want to make a contribution, who want to give something back. Let's enlist
the best that we have in America and start acting like Americans again to
solve our problems and make a difference, Wolf. (Applause.)


 Now, I know I'm sometimes accused of not being able to make a choice. I want both. (Laughter.) 


 Well, I think it's important to get back to your question, because obviously that's the most direct threat to the United States. 

We did take action similar to what has been described about 10 years ago,
based on what was thought to be actionable intelligence, sending in missiles
to try to target bin Laden and his top leadership who were thought to be at a
certain meeting place.

They were not taken out at the time.

So we have to be very conscious of all the consequences.

Now, as far as I know, there are, like, five things quickly that we should be
looking at.

Bin Laden has in large measure regrouped because we did not put in the troops
and make the commitment to aggressively going after him inside Afghanistan
when we had a chance. Therefore, we need more NATO troops and a faster effort
to train the Afghan army so that we do have the personnel and the technology,
including the Predators, to be able to be on the spot at the time to try to
move as quickly as possible.

Secondly, I think it's imperative that any actionable intelligence that would
lead to a strike inside Pakistan's territory be given the most careful
consideration.


 And at some point -- probably when the missiles have been launched -- the Pakistani government has to know they're on the way. Because one of the problems is the inherent paranoia about India in the region in Pakistan, so that we've got to have a plan to try to make sure we don't ignite some kind of reaction before we even know whether the action we took with the missiles has worked. 

Real quickly, thirdly, so far as we know right now, the nuclear technology is
considered secure, but there isn't any guarantee, especially given the
political turmoil going on inside Pakistan.

I would work very hard to try to get Musharraf, who is the elected president
-- these elections are about parliamentary positions. If you remove Musharraf
and have elections, that's going to be very difficult for the United States to
be able to control what comes next.

I would try to get Musharraf to share the security responsibility of the
nuclear weapons with a delegation from the United States and, perhaps, Great
Britain, so that there is some fail- safe.

And just, finally, I think that what we have to do is, Musharraf and
Afghanistan, is to repair the failed policies of the Bush administration. And
that's going to require intensive effort in the region. And Bill is right that
we should be engaged in that diplomacy right away.

But this is the forgotten front line in the war against terrorism, because the
Bush administration has walked away.


 Yes, I have. 


 Well, the first part of your question was, what would we wish we had done. And I have worked on this in past legislation to move in the direction that I think we should go to have a very high level of commitment from the White House, including a person responsible in our government for marshaling our resources against the proliferation of nuclear weapons. 


 There has to be a better organizing effort to make sure that every part of the United States government is working together. I don't think we've done what we need to do on homeland defense. You started that segment talking about the ease with which ABC smuggled things into this country. We haven't done enough on port security. We have not made the kind of commitment that is necessary to protect us from this kind of importation. 

But let me just add that when you look at where we are, the stateless
terrorists will operate from somewhere. I mean, part of our message has to be
there is no safe haven.

If we can demonstrate that the people responsible for planning the nuclear
attack on our country may not themselves be in a government or associated with
a state, but have a haven within one, then every state in the world must know
we will retaliate against those states.

There cannot be safe havens for stateless terrorists who are in these networks
that are plotting to have the proliferation of nuclear weapons and be
smuggling into our country or elsewhere the kind of suitcase device that could
cause such havoc.

So I think we have to be very, very clear. You know, deterrence worked during
the Cold War in large measure because the United States made it clear to the
Soviet Union that there would be massive retaliation.

We have to make it clear to those states that would give safe haven to
stateless terrorists, that would launch a nuclear attack against America that
they would also face a very heavy retaliation.


 Well, let me say, first, that I think we're all advocating for change. We all want to change the status quo, which is George W. Bush and the Republican domination of Washington for so many years. 

And we all are putting forth ideas about how best to deliver that change.

But I don't think you make change by, you know, calling for it or by demanding
it; I think it is a result of very hard work, bringing people together,
stating clearly what your goals are, what your principles are and then
achieving them.

And I do think that, you know, part of what this primary process is all about,
and New Hampshire voters are, you know, famously independent in making their
judgments, is to look at our records, to evaluate where we stand and what we
stand for.

And I think that there is a lot of, you know, room to ask all of us questions.

You know, Senator Obama has been -- as the Associated Press described it, he
could have a pretty good debate with himself, because four years ago, he was
for single-payer health care. Then he moved toward a rejection of that, a more
incremental approach. Then he was for universal health care. Then he proposed
a health care plan that doesn't cover everybody.


 I think that's relevant. I mean, I think that what we're looking for is a president we can count on, that you know where that president is yesterday, today and tomorrow. And I think that, you know, there are questions that should be asked and answered from each of us. And I certainly have no problem with whatever scrutiny comes my way. 


 Well, but I want to go back to health care and make another point. You have a mandate in your health care plan. 


 You mandate parents to have health care for children. 


 And, obviously, you did that because you want all children covered. So... 


 Well, they don't have a choice, and you're going to make sure that parents get health care for children. So, you know, you stopped short of going the distance to make sure that we had a system that could actually deliver health care for everyone. 

But it's not only about health care. You know, I think that two weeks ago, you
criticized Senator Edwards in saying that he was unelectable because he had
changed positions over the course of four years, that four years ago he wasn't
for universal health care; now, he is.

Well, you've changed positions within three years on, you know, a range of
issues that you put forth when you ran for the Senate, and now you have
changed.

You know, you said you would vote against the Patriot Act. You came to the
Senate; you voted for it. You said that you would vote against funding for the
Iraq war. You came to the Senate, and you voted for $300 billion of it.

So I just think it's fair for people to understand that many of the charges
that have been leveled, not just at me, but also at Senator Edwards, are not
totally, you know, unrelated to the very record you have. And you've said
records matter.

(CROSSTALK)


 And I think that we should get into examining everybody's record. 


 And you said that he had changed positions, did you not? 


 Well, making change, making -- wait a minute. Now, wait a minute. I'm going to respond to this. 

Because obviously -- obviously making change is not about what you believe.
It's not about a speech you make. It is about working hard.

There are 7,000 kids in New Hampshire who have health care because I helped to
create the Children's Health Insurance Program. There are 2,700 National Guard
and Reserve members who have access to health care because, on a bipartisan
basis, I pushed legislation through over the objection of the Pentagon, over
the threat of a veto from President Bush.


 I want to make change, but I've already made change. I will continue to make change. I'm not just running on a promise of change. I'm running on 35 years of change. I'm running on having taken on the drug companies and the health insurance companies, taking on the oil companies. 

So, you know, I think it is clear that what we need is somebody who can
deliver change. And we don't need to be raising the false hopes of our country
about what can be delivered. The best way to know what change I will produce
is to look at the changes that I've already made.


 And that's right. Because, remember, the purpose behind the surge was to create the space and time for political reconciliation, for the Iraqi government to do what only it can do and trying to deal with the myriad of unresolved problems that confront it. 

And as your report said, you know, we have the greatest military in the world.
We send in more of our troops, they will be able to dampen down the violence.

But there has not been a willingness on the part of the Iraqi government to do
what the surge was intended to do, to push them to begin to make the tough
decisions. And in the absence of that political action, 23 Americans dying in
December is totally unacceptable.

You know, there is no more cause for us to be there if the Iraqis are just not
going to do what they need to do to take care of their own country.


 So it's time to bring our troops home and to bring them home as quickly and responsibly as possible. 

And unfortunately, I don't see any reason why they should remain beyond, you
know, today.

I think George Bush doesn't intend to bring them home. But certainly I have
said when I'm president I will. Within 60 days, I'll start that withdrawal.


 I think we're in vigorous agreement about getting our troops home as quickly and responsibly as we possibly can, serving notice on the Maliki government that the blank check they've had from George Bush is no longer valid. 

We're going to have to have intensive diplomatic efforts in the region. I
don't think anyone can predict what the consequences will be.

And I think we have to be ready for whatever they might be.

We have to figure out what we're going to do with the 100,000- plus American
civilians who are there working at the embassy, working for not-for-profits or
American businesses.

We have to figure out what we're going to do about all the Iraqis who sided
with us, you know, like the translators who helped the Marines in Fallujah
whom I met, who said they wouldn't have survived without them. Are we going to
leave them?

You know, this is a complicated enterprise, so it has to be done right. And
last spring, I began demanding that the Bush administration tell us whether
they were undertaking the kind of planning that is necessary for the
withdrawal.

And, clearly, they're not. So as soon as I am elected, I will task the Joint
Chiefs and the secretary of defense and the security advisers to provide such
a plan and to begin to execute it within 60 days.


 I'm glad you noticed. 


 Well, that hurts my feelings. 

(LAUGHTER)


 But I'll try to go on. 

(LAUGHTER)

He's very likable. I agree with that. I don't think I'm that bad.


 Thank you... 

(LAUGHTER)

You know, I think this is one of the most serious decisions that the voters of
New Hampshire have ever had to make. And I really believe that the most
important question is who is ready to be president on day one.

You know, the problems waiting, some of which we have talked about already,
are huge and the stakes could not be higher.

And, you know, in 2000 we, unfortunately, ended up with a president who people
said they wanted to have a beer with; who said he wanted to be a uniter, not a
divider; who said that he had his intuition and he was going to, you know,
really come into the White House and transform the country. And, you know, at
least I think there are the majority of Americans who think that was not the
right choice.

So I am offering 35 years of experience making change, and the results to show
for it.

I, you know, respect and like both Senator Edwards and Senator Obama.


 But I think if you want to know what change each of us will bring about, look at what we've done. And there are a lot of differences that I think need to be aired for the voters of New Hampshire. 

Because I stand on my record of experience, and I appreciate Governor
Richardson's long history of serving our country.

But I think I am an agent of change. I embody change. I think having the first
woman president is a huge change...

(APPLAUSE)

... with consequences across our country and the world. And that on the
specific issues that I have worked on for a lifetime and the plans I have put
forth, I believe I am more prepared and ready to actually deliver change.


 And I think that ultimately is what Americans want to know and believe. 


 Can we just have a sort of a reality break for a minute? Because I think that it is important to make some kind of an assessment of these statements. 

You know, Senator Edwards did work and get the patient bill of rights through
the Senate -- it never got through the House. One of the reasons that Natalie
may well have died is because there isn't a patient's bill of rights. We don't
have a patient's bill of rights.


 Well, that's right. He killed it. 

So, we've got to have a plan and a real push to get it through.

You know, when it comes to lobbyists, you know, Senator Obama's chair in New
Hampshire is a lobbyist. He lobbies for the drug companies.

So, I think it's important that all of us be held to the same standard -- that
we're all held accountable.

You know, the energy bill that passed in 2005 was larded with all kinds of
special interest breaks, giveaways to the oil companies. Senator Obama voted
for it. I did not because I knew that it was going to be an absolute
nightmare.

Now we're all out on the campaign trail talking about taking the tax subsidies
away from the oil companies, some of which were in that 2005 energy bill.

So, you know, words are not actions. And as beautifully presented and
passionately felt as they are, they are not action.

You know, what we've got to do is translate talk into action and feeling into
reality. I have a long record of doing that, of taking on the very interests
that you have just rightly excoriated because of the over-due influence that
they have in our government.

And, you know, probably nobody up here has been the subject of more incoming
fire from the Republicans and the special interests. So I think I know exactly
what I'm walking into. And I am prepared to take them on.

(CROSSTALK)


 Absolutely. Because I've been an agent of change. You know, you go back 35 years, you know, I worked to help make the case for the law that, thankfully, required that public schools give an education to children with special needs. I worked to reform education and health care in Arkansas against, you know, some pretty tough odds. 

In the White House, I helped to create, you know, health care for kids and,
you know, reform a lot of the other programs -- like taking on the drug
companies.


 Well, I'm not saying that -- I'm only making my case, that this is what I have done. 

(CROSSTALK)


 Can I just say, if you're going to mention President Clinton, I'm going to respond? 


 President Clinton -- wait, President Clinton inherited a deficit, a debt that had been quadrupled in the previous 12 years. 

Now, anybody who doesn't think taking on the special interests to raise taxes
on corporations, raise taxes on the wealthy, begin to whittle away at the
deficit, to be able to leave with a balanced budget and a surplus -- if that
didn't take a lot of change that actually produced results, then I think we've
got amnesia.


 You know, change is hard, but change is possible... 

(APPLAUSE)


 ... if you're prepared to work hard and follow through. 


 Charlie, let me make a connection here that I think is really important. 

I think the economy is slipping toward a recession -- the unemployment figures
on Friday hitting 5 percent, the $100 a barrel oil that we also hit this week,
the fall of the dollar. There's a lot of pressures on middle-class families,
and the kind of costs that they have to keep up with have all gone up
astronomically.

I mean, you know, the energy costs for the typical family in New Hampshire
since George Bush has been president have tripled. And that's far beyond what
the costs of the tax cut that they got from George Bush.

So, what we've got to do is use energy as an opportunity to actually jump-
start economic recovery. We need to quickly move toward energy efficiency. We
should require the utilities to begin to work for energy efficiency and
conservation, costs that will be shared and decrease the pressure on families.

We need a weatherization and low-income heating emergency program that is out
there now helping families in New Hampshire and elsewhere to cover their
costs.

And we need to look at how doing what is right about energy is not only good
for our security and good for the fight against global warming, but it will be
essential in dealing with the economic challenges that we face.


 Yes, we do. 


 Yes, but, Charlie, the tax cuts on the wealthiest of Americans; not the middle-class tax cuts. One of the problems with George Bush's tax policy has been the way he has tilted it for the wealthy and the well-connected. 


 That may be NYU, Charlie. I don't think it's St. Anselm. 


 Look, if we set the cap where I'm saying, at $250,000 and above, that's a very small percentage. 

And what I want to do is fix the alternative minimum tax, create these new job
opportunities primarily through clean renewable energy, but also get back to
where middle class families get the kind of tax relief that they deserve,
which they really haven't been getting under George Bush.

(CROSSTALK)


 Oh, you're going to start with me? 

(LAUGHTER)


 Well, you know, we've had -- I don't exactly know how many -- 13, 14. And I've lost count. 


 You know, I feel like they've been good exchanges among us. You know, there have been one or two moments that I would have taken back. 

But what's really most important about these debates is that the Democratic
Party stands in such contrast to the Republicans.

You know, the Republicans have a totally different approach to what we need to
be doing. They're not talking about the mortgage crisis and trying to solve
it. They're not talking about what I fear to be a slide into recession.

They're not talking about global warming. They're not talking about science
and innovation. They're not talking about what really is going to face the
next president.

So, I think that we've done in our debates a much better job in actually
getting out the issues that are going to be on the desk in the Oval Office
when the president walks in.

And, beyond that, I will leave it to the pundits to decide what I might or
might not have said at any one of the debates.


 Thank you. 


 Well, thank you. 

And I am just delighted to be back here in Austin. You know, nearly 36 years
ago I came to Austin for my very first political job, and that was registering
voters in south Texas. And I had the great privilege of living for a while in
Austin and in San Antonio, and meeting people and making friends that have
stayed with me for a lifetime. And I found that we had a lot in common, a lot
of shared values -- a belief that hard work is important, that self-reliance
and individual responsibility count for a lot.

And among the people whom I got to know who became not only friends, but
heroes, were Barbara Jordan, who taught me a lot about courage. And today --
(applause) -- today would actually be her birthday. And I remember all the
time about how she got up every single morning facing almost insurmountable
odds to do what she did. And another was my great friend Ann Richards, who
taught me so much -- (cheers, applause) -- about determination.

You know, Ann was a great champion for the people of Texas. She also reminded
us that every so often, it's good to have a laugh about what it is we're
engaged in.

And as I think back on those years, and the work that I've done ever since,
you know, for me, politics is about making real differences in people's lives.
And I'm very, very proud that over these years, I have been able to make a
difference in the lives of people in Texas, Ohio and elsewhere.

You know, 350,000 children in Texas get health care every month, because I
helped to start the Children's Health Insurance Program. (Applause.) And
21,000 National Guard and Reserve members get access to health care, because I
went across the party line and joined up with a Republican senator to make
that happen.

So there's a lot that we've already done, but there's so much more to do. I
want to take on the tough issues that face us now. I want to stop the health
insurance companies from discriminating against people because they're sick.
You know, it's unconstitutional to discriminate on the basis of race or gender
or ethnic origin or religion, but it's okay to discriminate against sick
people. And we're going to end that, because it's time we said, "No more."
(Applause.)

And I want to continue the work that I've done in the Senate to take care of
our veterans. It was shocking and shameful what happened, that we discovered
about a year ago at Walter Reed. We can do so much better to take care of the
people who have taken care of us.

And there is a lot of work ahead. I offer a lifetime of experience and proven
results. And I know that if we work together, we can take on the special
interests, transfer $55 billion of all those giveaways and subsidies that
President Bush has given them back to the middle class to create jobs and
provide health care and make college affordable -- (applause) -- and I ask you
-- I ask you to join in my campaign.

It's now up to the people of Texas, Ohio and the other states ahead. So if
you'll be part of this campaign, which is really your campaign about your
futures, your families, your jobs and your health care, we'll continue to make
a difference for America.

Thank you all very much. (Cheers, applause.)


 Well, Jorge, I hope we have an opportunity. The people of Cuba deserve to have a democracy, and this gives the Cuban government under Raul Castro a chance to change direction from the one that was set for 50 years by his brother. 

I'm going to be looking for some of those changes -- releasing political
prisoners, ending some of the oppressive practices on the press, opening up
the economy. Of course the United States stands ready, and as president I
would be ready, to reach out and work with a new Cuban government once it
demonstrated that it truly was going to change that direction. I want to bring
the region together, our European allies who have influence with Cuba, to try
to push for some of those changes, and to make it very clear that if Cuba
moves toward democracy and freedom for its people the United States will
welcome that. And as president, I would look for opportunities to try to make
that happen and to create the momentum that might eventually lead to a
presidential visit. But there has to be evidence that, indeed, the changes are
real, that they're taking place, and that the Cuban people will finally be
given an opportunity to have their future determined by themselves.


 I -- I would not meet with him until there was evidence that change was happening because I think it's important that they demonstrate clearly that they are committed to change the direction. 

Then I think, you know, something like diplomatic encounters and negotiations
over specifics could take place.

But we've had this conversation before, Senator Obama and myself, and I
believe that we should have full diplomatic engagement, where appropriate. But
a presidential visit should not be offered and given without some evidence
that it will demonstrate the kind of progress that is in our interest and, in
this case, in the interest of the Cuban people. (Applause.)


 Well, I agree absolutely that we should be willing to have diplomatic negotiations and processes with anyone. I've been a strong advocate of opening up such a diplomatic process with Iran for a number of years because I think we should look for ways that we can possibly move countries that are adversarial to us, you know, toward the world community. It's in our interest. It's in the interests of the people in countries that, frankly, are oppressed, like Cuba, like Iran. 

But there has been this difference between us over when and whether the
president should offer a meeting without preconditions with those with whom we
do not have diplomatic relations, and it should be part of a process. But I
don't think it should be offered in the beginning because I think that
undermines the capacity for us to actually take the measure of somebody like
Raul Castro or Ahmadinejad and others.

And as President Kennedy said, he wouldn't be afraid to negotiate but he would
expect there to be a lot of preparatory work done, to find out exactly what we
would get out of it.

And therefore I do think we should be eliminating the policy of the Bush
administration, which has been very narrowly defined and frankly against our
interests, because we have failed to reach out to countries. We have alienated
our friends and we have emboldened our enemies.

So I would get back to very vigorous diplomacy and I would use bipartisan
diplomacy. I would ask emissaries from both political parties to represent me
and our country. Because I want to send a very clear message, to the rest of
the world, that the era of unilateralism, preemption and arrogance, of the
Bush administration, is over. And we're going to start working together.
(Cheers, applause.)


 Well, I would agree with a lot that Senator Obama just said, because it is the Democratic agenda. 

We are going to rid the tax code of these loopholes and giveaways. We're going
to stop giving a penny of your money to anybody who ships a job out of Texas,
Ohio or anywhere else to another country. We're certainly going to begin to
get the tax code to reflect what the needs of middle class families are, so we
can rebuild a strong and prosperous middle class.

The wealthy and the well-connected have had a president for the last seven
years. And I think it's time that the rest of America had a president who
works for you every single day. (Cheers, applause.)

We will also have a different approach toward trade. We're going to start
having trade agreements that not only have strong environmental and labor
standards, but I want to have a trade timeout.

We're going to look and see what's working, what's not working. And I'd like
to have a trade prosecutor to actually enforce the trade agreements that we
have before we enter into any others.

We're also going to put much tougher standards in place so that people cannot
import toys with lead paint, contaminated pet food, contaminated drugs into
our market. We're going to have a much more vigorous enforcement of safety
standards.

Now, in addition, there are steps I would take immediately. One is on this
foreclosure crisis. I have been saying for nearly a year we had to crack down
on the abusive practices of the lenders. But we also need a moratorium on home
foreclosures. Everywhere I go, I meet people who either have been or are about
to lose their home -- 85,000 homes in foreclosure in Texas, 90,000 in Ohio.
I've met the families: the hairdresser, the single mom who's going to lose her
home; the postal worker who got really hoodwinked into an agreement that
wasn't fair to him. So I would put a moratorium for 90 days to give us time to
work out a way for people to stay in their homes, and I would freeze interest
rates for five years because these adjustable-rate mortgages, if they keep
going up, millions of Americans are going to be homeless -- (applause) -- and
vacant homes will be across the neighborhoods of Texas and America.

Now, in addition, there are three ways we need to jumpstart the economy. Clean
green jobs -- I've been promoting this. I wanted it to be part of the stimulus
package.

I thought a $5 billion investment in clean green jobs would put hundreds of
thousands of Americans to work helping to create our future. We also need to
invest in our infrastructure. We don't have enough roads to take care of the
congestion. We have crumbling bridges and tunnels. We need to rebuild America,
and that will also put people to work.

And finally, we need to end George Bush's war on science, which has been waged
-- (cheers, applause) -- (off mike).


 So I want to think about how we fund the future. We've got to get back to being the innovation nation. Think of everything that goes on at this great university to create the new economy -- (cheers, applause). 


 I would consider that, except in egregious situations where it would be appropriate to take the actions you're referring to. But when we see what's been happening with literally babies being left with no one to take care of them, children coming home from school, no responsible adult left -- that is not the America that I know. 

That is against American values. (Applause.) And it is -- it is a stark
admission of failure by the federal government.

We need comprehensive immigration reform. I have been for this. I signed on to
the first comprehensive bill back in 2004. I've been advocating for it.
Tougher, more secure borders -- of course. But let's do it the right way:
cracking down on employers, especially once we get to comprehensive
immigration reform, who exploit undocumented workers and drive down wages for
everyone else. I'd like to see more federal help for communities like Austin
and others, like Laredo where I was this morning, that absorb the health care,
education and law enforcement costs. And I personally, as president, would
work with our neighbors to the south to help them create more jobs for their
own people.

And finally, we need a path to legalization to bring the immigrants out of the
shadows, give them the conditions that we expect them to meet: paying a fine
for coming here illegally, trying to pay back taxes over time, and learning
English. If they had committed a crime in our country or the country they came
from, then they should be deported. But for everyone else, there must be a
path to legalization. I would introduce that in the first 100 days of my
presidency. (Cheers, applause.)


 Well, I think both Senator Obama and I voted for that as part of the immigration debate. 

And having been along the border for the last week or so -- in fact, last
night I was at the University of Texas at Brownsville, and this is how absurd
this has become under the Bush administration because, you know, there is a
smart way to protect our borders and there is a dumb way to protect our
borders. (Laughter, applause.)

And what I learned last night, when I was there with Congressman Ortiz, is
that the University of Texas at Brownsville would have part of its campus cut
off.

This is the kind of absurdity that we're getting from this administration. I
know it because I've been fighting with them about the northern border. Their
imposition of passports and other kinds of burdens are separating people from
families, interfering with business and commerce and movement of goods and
people.

So what I've said is that I would say, wait a minute. We need to review this.
There may be places where a physical barrier is appropriate. I think when both
of us voted for this we were voting for the possibility that where it was
appropriate and made sense it would be considered, but as with so much, the
Bush administration has gone off the deep end, and they are unfortunately
coming up with a plan that I think is counterproductive.

So I would have a review. I would listen to the people who live along the
border, who understand what it is we need to be doing to protect our country.
(Cheers, applause.)


 But you know, John, there is -- there's a lot we've learned about technology and smart fencing. You know, there is technology that can be used instead of a physical barrier. It requires us having enough personnel along the border, so that people can be supervising a certain limited amount of space and will be able to be responsive in the event of, you know, people attempting to cross illegally. 

And -- and I think that the way that the Bush administration is going about
this, filing eminent domain actions against landowners and municipalities,
makes no sense.

So what I have said is, yes, there are places when, after a careful review --
again, listening to the people who live along the border -- there may be
limited places where it would work.

But let's deploy more technology and personnel instead of the physical
barrier. I frankly think that will work better, and it will give us an
opportunity to secure our borders without interfering with family relations,
business relations, recreation and so much else that makes living along the
border, you know, wonderful.


 And the people who live there need to have a president who understands it, will listen to them and be responsive. 


 Well, I think it's important for as many Americans as possible to do what I've never been able to do. And that is learn another language and try to be bilingual, because that connects us to the rest of the world. 

I think it is important though that English remain our common, unifying
language -- (applause) -- because that brings our country together in a way
that we've seen generations of immigrants, coming to our shores, be able to be
part of the American experience and pursue the American dream.

You know, I have been adamantly against the efforts by some to make English
the official language.

That I do not believe is appropriate, and I have voted against it and spoken
against it. I represent New York. We have a hundred and seventy languages in
New York City alone, and I do not think that we should be in any way
discriminating against people who do not speak English, who use facilities
like hospitals or have to go to court to enforce their rights.

But I do think that English does remain an important part of the American
experience, so I encourage people to become bilingual, but I also want to see
English remain the common unifying language of our country. (Applause.)


 Well, I have said that about President Bush, and I think our next president needs to be a lot less hat and a lot more cattle. (Cheers, applause.) 

You know, I think you can tell from the first 45 minutes, you know, Senator
Obama and I have a lot in common. We both care passionately about our country.
We are devoted to public service. We care deeply about the future. And we have
run a very vigorous and contested primary campaign, which has been by most
standards, I think, very positive and extremely civil.

But there are differences between us, and I think in our efforts to draw those
contrasts and comparisons we obviously try to let voters know how we see the
world differently. And I do offer solutions. That's what I believe in and what
I have done, and it's what I offer to voters because it's part of my life over
the last 35 years: working to get kids health care, working to expand legal
services for the poor, working to register voters, working to make a
difference, because I think that this country has given me so much. And there
are differences between our records and our accomplishments. I have to confess
I was somewhat amused the other night when on one of the TV shows, one of
Senator Obama's supporters was asked to name one accomplishment of Senator
Obama, and he couldn't. So I know that there are comparisons and contrasts to
be drawn between us, and it's important that voters get that information.

So yes, I do think that words are important and words matter, but actions
speak louder than words, and I offer -- (by cheers, applause) -- (off mike).


 Well, I think that if your candidacy is going to be about words, then they should be your own words. That's, I think, a very simple proposition. (Applause.) And you know -- you know, lifting whole passages from someone else's speeches is not change you can believe in; it's change you can Xerox. And I just don't think -- 


 No, but -- you know, but Barack, it is, because if -- you know, if you look -- (jeers from the audience) -- if you look -- if you look -- if you look at the YouTube of these videos, it does raise questions. 

Now, there is no doubt that you are a passionate, eloquent speaker, and I
applaud you for that. But when you look at what we face in this country, we do
need to unite the country, but we have to unite it for a purpose around very
specific goals. It is not enough to say, "Let's come together." We know we're
going to have to work hard to overcome the opposition of those who do not want
the changes to get to universal health care.

You know, when I proposed a universal health care plan, as did Senator
Edwards, we took a big risk, because we know it's politically controversial to
say we're going to cover everyone.

And you chose not to do that. You chose to put forth a health care plant that
will leave out at least 15 million people. That's a big difference.

When I said we should put a moratorium on home foreclosures, basically your
response was, well, that wouldn't work, and you know, in the last week even
President Bush said we have to do something like that.

I just believe that we've got to look hard at the difficult challenges we
face, especially after George Bush leaves the White House. The world will
breathe a sigh of relief once he is gone. (Applause.) We all know that. But
then we've got to do the hard work of not just bringing the country together,
but overcoming a lot of the entrenched opposition to the very ideas that both
of us believe in and for some of us have been fighting for a very long time.

You know, when I took on -- (interrupted by cheers, applause).

When I took on universal health care back in '93 and '94, it was against a
fire storm of special interest opposition. I was more than happy to do that
because I believe passionately in getting quality affordable health care to
every American. I don't want to leave anybody out. I see the results of
leaving people out. I am tired of health insurance companies deciding who will
live or die in America.

That has to end. (Applause.)


 Well, I believe that I am ready, and I am prepared. And I will leave that to voters to decide. 

But I want to get back to health care because I didn't get a chance to respond
--


 \-- after Senator Obama. No, let -- let me finish, 

Jorge --


 \-- because this is a significant difference. You know, Senator Obama has said it's a philosophical difference. I think it's a substantive difference. He has a mandate for parents to be sure to insure their children. I agree with that. I just know that if we don't go and require everyone to have health insurance, the health insurance industry will still game the system, every one of us with insurance will pay the hidden tax of approximately $900 a year -- (applause) -- to make up for the lack of insurance. 

And you know, in one of our earlier debates John Edwards made a great point.
It would be as though Social Security were voluntary; Medicare, one of the
great accomplishments of President Johnson, was voluntary. (Applause.) I do
not believe that is going to work.

So it's not just a philosophical difference. You look at what will work and
what will not work. If you do not have a plan that starts out attempting to
achieve universal health care, you will be nibbled to death, and we will be
back here, with more and more people uninsured and rising costs. (Applause.)


 Well -- 


 Wait a minute. No, this is too important. (Laughter.) This is the number one issue that people talk to me about. You know, when a mother grabs my arm and says "I can't get the operation my son needs because I don't have health insurance," it is personal for me. And I just fundamentally disagree. 

You know, Senator Obama's plan has a mandate on parents and a fine if parents
--


 \-- do not insure their children. 


 Because he recognizes that unless we have some kind of restriction, we will not get there. He's also said that if people show up at the hospital sick without health insurance, well, maybe at that point, you can fine them. 

We would not have a social compact with Social Security and Medicare if
everyone did not have to participate. I want a universal health care plan.
(Cheers, applause.)


 Well -- 


 We disagree on that. 


 What I mean is that, you know, for more than 15 years I've been honored to represent our country in more than 80 countries to negotiate on matters such opening borders for refugees during the war in Kosovo, to stand up for women's rights and human rights around the world. I've served on the Senate -- (interrupted by cheers, applause). I've served on the Senate Armed Services Committee, and I have worked as one of the leaders in the Congress on behalf of homeland security and the very difficult challenges we face. You know, just this week -- it's a good example -- we had elections in Pakistan; we had a change in government in Cuba or at least the leadership; we've had the elections that, you know, should have happened, that haven't happened, and just change the leader the way they do in Cuba; we've had Kosovo declaring independence; and we have had our embassy set on fire in Serbia. 

So we have serious problems that pose a real question about presidential
leadership, and also some great opportunities. You know, we now have
opportunities, perhaps, with Cuba, I hope with President Musharraf for him to
do the right thing. I've supported the independence of Kosovo because I think
it is imperative that in the heart of Europe we continue to promote
independence and democracy.

And I would be moving very aggressively to hold the Serbian government
responsible with their security forces to protect our embassy. Under
international law they should be doing that.

So when you think about everything that is going to happen, what we can
predict and what we cannot predict, I believe that I am prepared and ready on
day one to be commander in chief, to be the president, to turn our economy
around, and to begin making a lot of these very difficult decisions that we
will inherit from George Bush. And that is what I am putting forth to the
voters. (Cheers, applause.)


 Well, John, I think you forget a very important premise of the surge. The rationale of the surge was to create the space and time for the Iraqi government to make the decisions that only it can make. Now, there is no doubt, given the skill and the commitment of our young men and women in uniform, that putting more of them in will give us a tactical advantage and will provide security in some places. And that has occurred. 

But the fact is that the purpose of it has not been fulfilled.

The Iraqi government has slowly inched toward making a few of the decisions in
a less than complete way.

It was one of the reasons why the economy was booming. I've got that, you
know, clearly in my economic blueprint, which is something that I've published
the last few days, because it's part of what we have to do again, and I think
that I will be very comfortable and effective in taking on Senator McCain over
the fiscal irresponsibility of the Republican Party that he's been a part of.
(Applause.)


 Well, you know, these are the rules that are followed, and I -- you know, I think that it'll sort itself out. I'm not worried about that. We will have a nominee, and we will a unified Democratic Party, and we will go on to victory in November. (Cheers, applause.) 


 Well, I think everybody here knows I have lived through some crises and some challenging -- (laughter) -- moments in my life, and -- (interrupted by cheers, applause). 

And I am grateful for the support and the prayers of countless Americans. But
people often ask me, how do you do it, you know, how do you keep going, and I
just have to shake my head in wonderment because with all of the challenges
that I've had, they are nothing compared to what I see happening in the lives
of Americans every single day.

You know, a few months ago I was honored to be asked, along with Senator
McCain, as the only two elected officials to speak at the opening of the
Intrepid Center at Brooke Medical Center in San Antonio, a center designed to
take care of and provide rehabilitation for our brave young men and women who
have been injured in war. And I remember sitting up there and watching them
come in: those who could walk were walking; those who had lost limbs were
trying with great courage to get themselves in without the help of others;
some were in wheelchairs and some were on gurneys. And the speaker
representing these wounded warriors had had most of his face disfigured by the
results of fire from a roadside bomb.

You know, the hits I've taken in life are nothing compared to what goes on
every single day in the lives of people across our country. And I resolved at
a very young age that I'd been blessed, and that I was called by my faith and
by my upbringing to do what I could to give others the same opportunities and
blessings that I took for granted. That's what gets me up in the morning.
That's what motivates me in this campaign. (Cheers, applause.) And -- and you
know, no matter what happens in this contest -- and I am honored. I am honored
to be here with Barack Obama. I am absolutely honored. (Cheers, applause.)


 And you know, whatever happens, we're going to be fine. You know, we have strong support from our families and our friends. I just hope that we'll be able to say the same thing about the American people, and that's what this election should be about. Thanks. (Cheers, applause.) 




 Well, I couldn't run as anything other than a woman. 

(LAUGHTER)

I am proud to be running as a woman. And I'm excited that I may...(APPLAUSE)
... you know, may be able, finally, to break that hardest of all glass
ceilings. But, obviously, I'm not running because I'm a woman. I'm running
because I think I'm the most qualified and experienced person to hit the
ground running in January 2009. And I trust the American people to make a
decision that is not about me or my gender, or about Barack or his race or
about Bill and his ethnicity, but about what is best for you and your family.
We have big challenges... (APPLAUSE) ... and big needs in our country. And I
think we're going to need experienced and strong leadership in order to start
handling all of the problems that we have here at home and around the world.
And when I'm inaugurated, I think it's going to send a great message to a lot
of little girls and boys around the world.


 Anderson, I have a great deal of admiration for Elizabeth Edwards. And I appreciate greatly John's comments. You know, I have spent my entire life advocating for women. I went to Beijing in 1995 and said that women's rights are human rights, and I've done everything I can to make that principle come true. And, specifically on issues, I got to vote to raise the minimum wage. 

I put in legislation which said that Congress should not get a salary increase
until they did raise the minimum wage, and I am putting that back in, because
I agree that by the time we got it raised after 10 years, it was already out
of date. And as to women in poverty and women with health care needs, I have
been on the forefront of both advocating and creating change in my public
service, in my time in Arkansas, the White House, and now in the Senate. But I
think it is terrific. We're up here arguing about who's going to be better for
women, because isn't that a nice change for everybody to hear.

(APPLAUSE)


 I agree completely that what we need to do is start acting instead of talking. 

That means accelerating the United Nations peacekeeping forces along with the
African Union. It means moving more quickly on divestment and sanctions on the
Sudanese government, including trying to use the diplomacy to get China
involved.

And, finally, it does mean a no-fly zone. We can do it in a way that doesn't
endanger humanitarian relief.


 I think NATO has to be there with the no-fly zone, and I think that only the United States can provide the logistical support and the air lift to make a no-fly zone and the actual delivery of humanitarian aid work. 


 American ground troops I don't think belong in Darfur at this time. I think we need to focus on the United Nations peacekeeping troops and the African Union troops. 

We've got to figure out what we're doing in Iraq, where our troops are
stretched thin, and Afghanistan, where we're losing the fight to al Qaeda and
bin Laden.

(APPLAUSE)


 Well, I want to thank her and her son for their service and their sacrifice. When we send a soldier or Marine to combat in Iraq, we really are sending a family. 

And since the election of 2006, the Democrats have tried repeatedly to win
Republican support with a simple proposition that we need to set a timeline to
begin bringing our troops home now.

I happen to agree that there is no military solution, and the Iraqis refuse to
pursue the political solutions. In fact, I asked the Pentagon a simple
question: Have you prepared for withdrawing our troops? In response, I got a
letter accusing me of being unpatriotic; that I shouldn't be asking questions.

Well, one of the problems is that there are a lot of questions that we're
asking but we're not getting answers from the Bush administration.


 And it's time for the Republicans to join us in standing up to the president to bring our troops home. 

(APPLAUSE)


 I do. I don't support a draft. I think our all- volunteer military has performed superbly. But we've had women die in Iraq. We've had combat deaths of women in Iraq and Afghanistan. And I do think that women should register. I doubt very much that we'll ever have to go back to a draft. But I think it is fair to call upon every young American. 

And I agree completely with Chris. We've got to look for more ways for
universal national service. I've introduced legislation for a public service
academy that would be patterned on great institutions like The Citadel and our
military academies. Because we've got to get young people back into public
service.

And the other night we had a provision in our bill that we passed to have
people who go into public service have their student loans deferred and even
forgiven.

We need to do more to support public service.


 Thank you, John, and thank you for your service to our country. 

You know, when I was first lady, I was privileged to represent our country in
82 countries. I have met with many officials in Arabic and Muslim countries. I
have met with kings and presidents and prime ministers and sheiks and tribal
leaders.

And certainly, in the last years during my time in the Senate, I have had many
high-level meetings with presidents and prime ministers in Iraq, Afghanistan,
Kuwait, Pakistan and many other countries.

I believe that there isn't much doubt in anyone's mind that I can be taken
seriously.

(APPLAUSE)

I believe that other countries have had women presidents and women prime
ministers. There are several serving now -- in Germany, in Chile, in Liberia
and elsewhere -- and I have noticed that their compatriots on the world stage
certainly take them seriously.

I think that it is...


 It would be quite appropriate to have a woman president deal with the Arab and Muslim countries on behalf of the United States of America. 

(APPLAUSE)


 Well, I will not promise to meet with the leaders of these countries during my first year. I will promise a very vigorous diplomatic effort because I think it is not that you promise a meeting at that high a level before you know what the intentions are. 

I don't want to be used for propaganda purposes. I don't want to make a
situation even worse. But I certainly agree that we need to get back to
diplomacy, which has been turned into a bad word by this administration.

And I will purse very vigorous diplomacy.

And I will use a lot of high-level presidential envoys to test the waters, to
feel the way. But certainly, we're not going to just have our president meet
with Fidel Castro and Hugo Chavez and, you know, the president of North Korea,
Iran and Syria until we know better what the way forward would be.

(APPLAUSE)


 You know, I put forth a comprehensive three-point plan to get our troops out of Iraq, and it does start with moving them out as soon as possible. 

But Joe is right. You know, I have done extensive work on this. And the best
estimate is that we can probably move a brigade a month, if we really
accelerate it, maybe a brigade and a half or two a month. That is a lot of
months.

My point is: They're not even planning for that in the Pentagon. You know, Mr.
Berry, I am so sorry about the loss of your son. And I hope to goodness your
youngest son doesn't face anything like that.

But until we get this president and the Pentagon to begin to at least tell us
they are planning to withdraw, we are not going to be able to turn this
around.

And so, with all due respect to some of my friends here -- yes, we want to
begin moving the troops out, but we want to do so safely, and orderly and
carefully.

We don't want more loss of American life and Iraqi life as we attempt to
withdraw, and it is time for us to admit that it's going to be complicated, so
let's start it now.


 No. 


 No, it's not correct. 


 And Chelsea went to public schools, kindergarten through eighth grade, until we moved to Washington. And then I was advised, and it was, unfortunately, good advice, that if she were to go to a public school, the press would never leave her alone, because it's a public school. So I had to make a very difficult decision. 


 But we were very pleased she was in public schools in Little Rock. 


 Anderson, you know, we haven't really seriously addressed this incredibly important issue of global warming and energy efficiency. 


 OK. 


 First of all, I have proposed a strategic energy fund that I would fund by taking away the tax break for the oil companies, which have gotten much greater under Bush and Cheney. 

(APPLAUSE)

And we could spend about $50 billion doing what America does best. It's time
we start acting like Americans again.


 We can solve these problems if we focus on innovation and technology. 

So, yes, all these alternative forms of energy are important. So is fuel
efficiency for cars and so is energy efficiency for buildings.

I'm agnostic about nuclear power. John is right, that until we figure out what
we're going to do with the waste and the cost, it's very hard to see nuclear
as a part of our future. But that's where American technology comes in. Let's
figure out what we're going to do about the waste and the cost if we think
nuclear should be a part of the solution.

But this issue of energy and global warming has the promise of creating
millions of new jobs in America.


 So it can be a win-win, if we do it right. 

(APPLAUSE)


 Sure. 

Senator Obama?


 Well, first, I want to thank Mark and Joel and Charity and Kim and Mike. You know, it's not easy coming in front of the entire world and talking about your Alzheimer's, or your diabetes or your breast cancer, or your disability. 


 But the fact that this is happening in a country as rich as ours is just a national disgrace. 

And, yes, I did try in '93 and '94, and I like to say I have the scars to show
for it, but I learned a lot about what we have to do.

And having a plan, yes, that's part of it. But more important, we have to have
a sense of national commitment that universal health care is an American
value.

We have to quit being told the special interests, like the insurance companies
and the drug companies, that, somehow, we can't do what most other developed
countries do, which is cover everybody and provide decency and respect to
every single person in this country with health care.

(APPLAUSE)


 Well, I think it is a problem that Bush was elected in 2000. 

(APPLAUSE)


 I actually thought somebody else was elected in that election, but... 

(APPLAUSE)


 Obviously, I am running on my own merits, but I am very proud of my husband's record as president of the United States. 

(APPLAUSE)


 You know what is great about this is look at this stage and look at the diversity you have here in the Democratic Party. Any one of us would be a better president than our current president or the future Republican nominee. 

(APPLAUSE)


 So I'm looking forward to making my case to the people of this country... 


 ... and I hope they will judge me on my merits. 


 Yes, John, it's a good thing we're ending soon. 

(LAUGHTER)

You know, I think that Chris Dodd has it absolutely right. I mean, I admire
and like very much Barack, as I do with all of the candidates here. And I
think that what you've seen tonight is how ready the Democrats are to lead.


 We are ready to lead the change that America so desperately needs. 


 Well, George, I was going to say good morning... 

(LAUGHTER)

... and, as soon as I wake up, I'll answer your question.

(LAUGHTER)

You know, I'm running on my own qualifications and experience. It's really up
to the voters to make these decisions.

And I'm excited because I have a campaign that is growing in support, because
we do need to make big changes. And I've set big goals for my presidency. I
want to have universal health care and move toward energy independence and do
what we need to do in education and reform our government, and, of course, end
the war in Iraq.

So I think we have a great group of candidates. You don't have to be against
anybody. This is a great problem to have. You can choose who you're for.

And I hope people will choose to be for me based on my experience, my
qualifications and my plan for the future as to what I will do as president.


 Well, George, we had a specific disagreement, because I do not think that a president should give away the bargaining chip of a personal meeting with any leader, unless you know what you're going to get out of that. 

It takes a lot of planning to move an agenda forward, particularly with our
adversaries. I think the next president will face some of the most difficult
international dangerous threats and challenges that any president has faced in
a very long time.


 We're going to have to mend fences with our allies. We're going to have to deal with global warming. We're going to have to get back on the track of trying to prevent nuclear proliferation -- and so much else. 

So I think that, when you've got that big an agenda facing you, you should not
telegraph to our adversaries that you're willing to meet with them without
preconditions during the first year in office.


 No option should be off the table, but I would certainly take nuclear weapons off the table. And this administration has been very willing to talk about using nuclear weapons in a way we haven't seen since the dawn of the nuclear age. I think that's a terrible mistake. 

(END VIDEO CLIP)


 Well, George, you've got to put it into context. I was asked specifically about what was, very clearly, an effort by the Bush-Cheney administration to drum up support for military action against Iran. 


 Combine that with their continuing effort to try to get what are called bunker-buster bombs, nuclear bombs that could penetrate into the earth to go after deeply buried nuclear sites. 

And I thought it was very important. This was not a hypothetical, this was a
brushback against this administration which has been reckless and provocative
-- to America's damage, in my opinion.

So I think there's a big difference, and I think it's a difference that really
goes to the heart of whether we should be using hypotheticals. I mean, one
thing that I agree with is we shouldn't use hypotheticals. You know, words do
matter.

And this campaign, just like every other things that happens in the United
States, is looked at and followed with very great interest. And, you know,
Pakistan is on a knife's edge. It is easily, unfortunately, a target for the
jihadists. And, therefore, you've got to be very careful about what it is you
say with respect to Pakistan.


 Well, I don't think Karl Rove's going to endorse me. That becomes more and more obvious. But I find it interesting he's so obsessed with me. And I think the reason is because... 

(LAUGHTER)

... we know how to win. I mean, you know, I have been fighting against these
people for longer than anybody else up here. I've taken them on and we've
beaten them.

And I'm very excited about my campaign. I had 18 wonderful years in Arkansas.
I'll be there tomorrow, where the governor will be endorsing me.

I've had wonderful experiences in upstate New York, where many of the people
who voted for me had never voted for a Democrat before.

And you know, the idea that you're going to escape the Republican attack
machine and not have high negatives by the time they're through with you, I
think, is just missing what's been going on in American politics for the last
20 years.

(APPLAUSE)


 And the reason -- the reason why we're going to win is because we have a better vision for America, we know how to bring about change, and I know how to beat them. 

So, yes, they're going to be driving up negatives and making all these
comments. Doesn't matter to me a bit.

What's important is what's happening in the lives of the American people. And
the kind of change I'm interested in is how we help more Americans get to the
American dream.

And that means universal health care. That means new jobs for the middle class
with rising incomes. It means what I have fought for, for more than 35 years.

And I am proud of my campaign, and it's getting better every single day.


 So I'm looking forward to going up against whoever the Republicans nominate. 

(APPLAUSE)


 Well, George, I believe we have to change Washington. I've stood up against the special interests, I've taken them on. I took them on, on health care. I took them on and voted against a lot of their special interest legislation, like class action reform, which is just really another way of lining the pockets of big business. 


 I've taken them on on so many different fronts. 

But there is this artificial distinction that people are trying to make. Don't
take money from lobbyists, but take money from the people who employ and hire
lobbyists and give them their marching orders. Those are the people that are
really going to be pushing back.

I think we can do a much better job if we say we have got to move toward
public financing, get the money out of American politics, because it's the
people who employ the lobbyists who are behind all the money in American
politics.

(APPLAUSE)

I think what we need to do is go after a better agenda of reform.


 Well, let me tell you what I would do, because I think that we need to do three things. We need to begin moving our troops out, and we have to do it carefully and responsibly. Joe is absolutely right. 

Moving troops out cannot happen without careful planning, which is why I've
been pushing the Pentagon to make sure they're actually planning because
they've been resistant to doing so.

Secondly, we need much stronger pressure on the Iraqi government than this
administration has been willing to bring.


 And I would certainly condition any aid of any kind on their actually making the political decisions that they have been reluctant and unwilling to do so far. There is no... 

(CROSSTALK)


 There is no military solution. Everybody agrees with that. And the political solutions seem to be out of the grasp of the Iraqis, because they're still jockeying for power. 

And then of course, we would have, as Bill suggested, an intensive regional
and international diplomatic effort.

But I think that, you know, this is going to be very dangerous and very
difficult. A lot of people don't like to hear that.

But, if you look at how we would have to take our troops out, plus the
equipment, which we would not want to leave, plus what we do with the people
in the Green Zone, plus what we do with the Iraqis who sided with us --
thousands of them -- plus, what we do with the more than 100,000 American
contractors who are there -- this is a massive, complicated undertaking.


 And we do have to do it as carefully and responsibly as possible, and I think my plan takes all of that into account. 


 Well, I think that based on the conversations I've had with military planners and outside experts, Joe is right, that this is going to take a while. People say you can move maybe a brigade to two brigades a month. 

It is so important that we not oversell this. We've got to move them as
quickly as possible, but you also have to move out the equipment. There has
been no indication that the Turks are willing to let us move out. They
wouldn't let us move in.

That means we go back down through the south. And if you remember, when we
were supposedly on the road to liberation, we were attacked by Shiites back in
March and April of 2003. So this...


 ... is not going to be easy or safe. 


 And we've got to be very careful about how we do it. 


 You know, it's hard to hear you up here, George. I apologize. 


 Well, I don't pretend to understand the wisdom and the power of God. I do believe in prayer. And I have relied on prayer consistently throughout my life. You know, I like to say that, if I had not been a praying person before I got to the White House, after having been there for just a few days I would've become one. 

(LAUGHTER)

So I am very dependent on my faith, and prayer is a big part of that.


 Well, I agree with everything John said, with the additional point that your question really raised, and that is that we do export a lot of agricultural goods, many of that through trade agreements. 

And I think we've got to do three things. Number one, we have to have more
focus on family farms, like the gentleman who asked the question. We have
34,000 family farms, largely, in New York. I've tried to become a real
advocate for them because they get lost in the shuffle.

So I've created ways of working with them. I've issued a report about how much
difficulty they have getting their products across the border into Canada.

So we've got to do more to make sure trade agreements are not only good for
the exporting of agricultural products from great, big agribusiness, but also
for small farmers.


 Secondly, we've got to do more, as Chris said, to build up the agricultural and rural areas of our country. And thirdly, you know, trade needs to become a win-win. 

People ask me, am I a free trader or a fair trader? I want to be a smart, pro-
American trader. And that means we look for ways to maximize the impact of
what we're trying to export and quit being taken advantage of by other
countries.


 Well, I, too, regret giving George Bush the authority that he misused and abused. It was a very difficult decision, and I tried to weigh it as carefully as possible, talking to a lot of different people and being assured, both publicly and privately, by President Bush and the people close to him that they would use the authority to go in and get inspectors and try to find out if there were weapons of mass destruction and pursue diplomacy. 

So, you know, looking back on it, I wouldn't have voted that way again,
certainly, because obviously President Bush had no intention of doing what he
said he was going to do. And obviously for me that is a great regret.


 Well, as I saw it, yes, you know, similar to John. You know, when the president of the United States says, as he said publicly, and then as people around him said privately over and over again, "We're going to use this authority to get inspectors back in, "We're going to go to the United Nations," you know, at some point, you do have to make that evaluation. 

And I thought that, based on what he had said and what we were talking about
at the time in the Congress, that that would be an appropriate approach.


 I would never have diverted our attention to Iraq, and I never would have pursued this war. I think that has been a terrible mistake for our country. 


 Well, I have long supported incentive pay for school wide performance. You know, what we're trying to do is to change the culture within schools and to provide the resources, the training and the support that teachers need to do the job they do want to do. 

And particularly focusing on kids who come from disadvantaged backgrounds, I
think you have to start with preschool, even before pre-kindergarten.


 I've advocated universal pre-kindergarten. I think you have to start even earlier to try to help the family be the best school and teaching opportunity for their own children. 

You have to reform No Child Left Behind. We're going to try to do that and
begin to make it much more in line with the reality of teaching.

But I think that we've got to have a real conversation with our teachers, our
students and our parents, because basically you can walk in a classroom today
and it looks very much like the classroom I walked into, you know, 50 years
ago.

And we have changed as a nation. We don't live and work the same way. But we
act as though our schools are somehow off limits to trying to bring technology
and other changes to them.


 I'm glad they did what they did. But it can't be just left to a bail-out for the banks. We've got to figure out how we're going to figure out people facing foreclosures. 

And I think a number of us have recommendations on that, that do not lend
themselves to an easy yes or no.


 Well, when I was growing up I didn't think I would run for president, but I could not be standing here without the women's movement, without generations of women who broke down barriers, the civil rights movement that gave women and people of color the feeling that they were really part of the American dream. 

So I owe the opportunity that I have here today to many people; some of whom
are known to history and many who aren't.

But more personally, I owe it to my mother, who never got a chance to go to
college, who had a very difficult childhood, but who gave me a belief that I
could do whatever I set my mind...


 Well, Tim, it is my goal to have all troops out by the end of my first term. But I agree with Barack. It is very difficult to know what we're going to be inheriting. You know, we do not know, walking into the White House in January 2009, what we're going to find. What is the state of planning for withdrawal? 

That's why last spring I began pressing the Pentagon to be very clear about
whether or not they were planning to bring our troops out. And what I found
was that they weren't doing the kind of planning that is necessary, and we've
been pushing them very hard to do so.

You know, with respect to the question, though, about the Democrats taking
control of the Congress, I think the Democrats have pushed extremely hard to
change this president's course in Iraq. Today I joined with many of my
colleagues in voting for Senator Biden's plan, slightly different than he'd
been presenting it, but still the basic structure was to move toward what is a
de facto partition if the Iraqi people and government so choose.

The Democrats keep voting for what we believe would be a better course.
Unfortunately as you know so well, the Democrats don't have the majority in
the Senate to be able to get past that 60-vote blockade that the Republicans
can still put up. But I think every one of us who is still in the Senate --
Senator Biden, Senator Dodd, Senator Obama and myself -- we are trying every
single day. And of course, Congressman Kucinich is in the House.

But I think it is fair to say that the president has made it clear. He intends
to have about 100,000 or so troops when he leaves office -- the height of
irresponsibility, that he would leave this war to his successor. I will
immediately move to begin bringing our troops home when I am inaugurated.


 Tim, could I just clarify that? You know, I said there may be a continuing counterterrorism mission, which, if it still exists, will be aimed at al Qaeda in Iraq. It may require combat, Special Operations Forces or some other form of that, but the vast majority of our combat troops should be out. 


 (Laughs, laughter, applause.) Well, I don't know where to start, but let me -- 


 Yes. Let me respond. My understanding of the revolutionary guard in Iran is that it is promoting terrorism. It is manufacturing weapons that are used against our troops in Iraq. It is certainly the main agent of support for Hezbollah, Hamas and others, and in what we voted for today, we will have an opportunity to designate it as a terrorist organization, which gives us the options to be able to impose sanctions on the primary leaders to try to begin to put some teeth into all this talk about dealing with Iran. We wouldn't be where we are today if the Bush administration hadn't outsourced our diplomacy with respect to Iran and ignored Iran and called it part of the "axis of evil." Now we've got to make up for lost time on the ground. 


 Tim, I think that's one of those hypotheticals that -- 


 \-- that is better not addressed at this time. 


 What is real life is what apparently happened in Syria, so let's take that one step at a time. 


 I know what the question is. 


 But I think it's important to lay out what we know about Syria. 


 Because we don't have as much information as we wish we did. But what we think we know is that with North Korean help, both financial and technical and material, the Syrians apparently were putting together, and perhaps over some period of years, a Nuclear facility, and the Israelis took it out. I strongly support that. 

We don't have any more information than what I have just described. It is
highly classified; it is not being shared. But I don't want to go a step
further and talk about what might or might not happen down the road with Iran
.


 But I think it is fair to say what happened in Syria , so far as we know, I support. 


 Well, Tim, I'm not going to answer that because what I understand is that -- 


 Well, what I have said is that I will do everything I can to prevent Iran from becoming an nuclear power, including the use of diplomacy, the use of economic sanctions, opening up direct talks. We haven't even tried. That's what is so discouraging about this. So then you have the Republican candidates on the other side jumping to the kind of statements that you just read to us. We need a concerted, comprehensive strategy to deal with Iran . We haven't had it. We need it. And I will provide it. 


 Well, in addition to the general points that have been made, that I agree with, why do they have sanctuary cities? In large measure because if local law enforcement begins to act like immigration enforcement officers, what that means is that you will have people not reporting crimes. You will have people hiding from the police. And I think that is a real direct threat to the personal safety and security of all the citizens. 

So this is a result of the failure of the federal government, and that's where
it needs to be fixed.


 Well, I don't think there is any choice. The ICE groups go in and raid individuals, but if you're a local police chief and you're trying to solve a crime that you know people from the immigrant community have information about, they may not talk to you if they think you're also going to be enforcing the immigration laws. 

Local law enforcement has a different job than federal immigration
enforcement. The problem is the federal government has totally abdicated its
responsibility.


 (Laughs, laughter.) 


 (Laughs.) 


 Well, Tim, I'm proud that I tried to get universal health care back in '93 and '94. It was a tough fight. It was kind of a lonely fight. But it was worth trying. And of course I've said many times that I made mistakes. 

But I think the biggest mistake was that we didn't take the opportunity that
was offered back them to move toward quality affordable health care for every
single American.

But I've come back with a different plan that I believe is much better
reflective of what people want, namely, an array of choices. You can keep what
you have. But if you're uninsured or you're underinsured, you'll now have
access to the congressional plan.

And I think it's a different time. Many more people -- in business, in labor,
doctors, nurses, hospitals and especially American families -- know that we
have to change what we do in health care. And I think that my experience on
both ends of Pennsylvania Avenue, knowing how challenging it will be to take
on the special interests, which I've been taking on for a very long time,
gives me a special insight into what we must do. And I intend to be the health
care president. You see a lot of people with those stickers that say, "I'm a
health care voter." Well, I want to be the health care president.

And I think that finally there will be a consensus behind us to do that. And I
look forward to going into the White House and getting that done, because I
think it's the highest domestic priority that we have right now.


 Well, I don't -- well, I don't think that's a fair reading. 

If you'll remember, there was a decision made by the Republicans then that
they would not support extending health care to every American. I regret that,
and so did the late Senator Chafee, because he and I had many conversations
about that.

But those arguments have been really discredited the last 15 years. People
know that we can't sustain the course we're on without doing more damage, more
uninsured, more people denied the care that their doctors say they need, even
though they have insurance, driving more doctors to distraction, overworking
our nurses. There's so much that has happened that people can see with their
own eyes now, that I believe that we finally have a consensus to do what we
should do.


 Well, I -- I really respect what both John and Barack said. I think that we've seen differences used for divisive purposes, for political purposes in the last several elections, and I think every one of us on this stage are really personally opposed to that and will do everything we can to prevent it. 

With respect to your individual children, that is such a matter of parental
discretion. I think that obviously it is better to try to work with your
children, to help your children the many differences that are in the world and
to really respect other people and the choices that other people make, and
that goes far beyond sexual orientation.

So I think that this issue of gays and lesbians and their rights will remain
an important one in our country. And I hope that -- tomorrow we're going to
vote on the hate crimes bill, and I'm sure that those of us in the Senate will
be there to vote for it. We haven't been able to get it passed, and it is an
important measure to send a message that we stand against hatred and
divisiveness. And I think that, you know, that's what the Democratic Party
stands for in contrast all too often to the other side.


 Well, Tim, let me tell you what I think about this because I know this is a particular concern of yours, but I want to make three points very briefly. 

First, I do think that it's important to talk about fiscal responsibility. You
know, when my husband left office after moving us toward a balanced budget and
a surplus, we had a plan to make Social Security solvent until 2055. Now,
because of the return to deficits, we've lost 14 years of solvency. It's now
projected to be solvent until 2041. Getting back on a path of fiscal
responsibility is absolutely essential.

Number two, I think we do need another bipartisan process. You described what
happened in '83. It took presidential leadership, and it took the relationship
between the White House and Capitol Hill to reach the kind of resolution that
was discussed. And I think that has to be what happens again, but with a
president who is dedicated to Social Security, unlike our current president,
who has never liked Social Security. You can go back and see when he first ran
for Congress he was dissing Social Security. So when I'm president, I will do
everything to protect and preserve Social Security so we can have that kind of
bipartisanship.

And finally, then you can look in the context of fiscal responsibility and of
a bipartisan compromise what else might be done. But I think if you don't put
fiscal responsibility first, you're going to really make a big mistake,
because we demonstrated in the '90s it had a lot to do with moving us toward
solvency.


 Well, I take everything off the table until we move toward fiscal responsibility and before we have a bipartisan process. I don't think I should be negotiating about what I would do as president. You know, I want to see what other people come to the table with. 


 There was a plan, on the basis of the balanced budget and the surplus, to take it all the way to 2055. 


 And we know what happened. George Bush came in, went back to deficits, and has basically used the Social Security trust fund and borrowing from China -- 


 \-- and other countries to pay for the war. 


 I'm not putting anything on the proverbial table until we move toward fiscal responsibility. I think it's a mistake to do that. 


 Put fiscal responsibility -- 


 Well, I think we have to make some significant changes, and I've told you where I would start from and what I would do. And I think it's a mistake to be negotiating over what you will give away before you even get to the bipartisan process, because the fiscal responsibility -- (interrupted by cross talk) -- 


 Not at this point. I think we're making progress at the local level. 


 (Laughs.) 


 (Chuckles.) 


 (Chuckles.) 

(Announcements.)


 I thought Bill was a pretty good president. (Cheers, applause.) And from my perspective, you know, the values that he acted on on behalf of our country, both at home and abroad, are ones that stand the test of time. 

But look, I'm running on my own. I'm going to the people on my own. I think I
know how to find common ground and how to stand my ground. And on all the
issues that matter to America in the 21st century, I wish we could turn the
clock back, but we can't. And we need to start with leadership that can
deliver results and get us back to the values that make America great.


 You know, Tim, I agree with what Joe and Barack have said. As a matter of policy it cannot be American policy period. I met with those same three- and four-star retired generals, and their principal point -- in addition to the values that are so important for our country to exhibit -- is that there is very little evidence that it works. 


 Well, he's not standing here right now. 

(APPLAUSE)


 Well, I'll talk to him later. 

(LAUGHTER)


 Well, I have always said that my husband and I started a conversation 36 years ago and it never stopped. So I was certainly involved in talking about a lot of what went on in terms of the president's decisions. But I know very well that the president makes the decision. Everyone in the White House is there because of one person -- the president -- including the spouse of the president. 

Ultimately, the president has to sift through everything that is recommended
and make her decision. What I believe is that it is the ultimate
responsibility of a president to seek out a broad cross- section of advisers
who will have different points of view and provide different perspectives, and
that's what I intend to do, and that is certainly what my husband did as well.


 Well, Tim, I actually co-sponsored legislation that would have sitting presidents reveal any donation to their presidential library, and I think that's a good policy. 


 Well, it would be the same, because that's where the library comes from. 


 Well, you'll have to ask them. 


 Well, I don't talk about my private conversations with my husband, but I'm sure he'd be happy to consider that. 


 The Golden Rule: Do unto others as you would have them do unto you. I think it's a good rule for politics, too. 


 Well, I hate to say it in front of this New Hampshire crowd -- I'm a Yankees fan. Have been for a long, long time. 

(APPLAUSE)


 Well, you know, I've worried about that because I think, given the Cubs' record, which of course, I hope it happens, but it could very well be a sign of the coming apocalypse, were that to ever occur. 

(LAUGHTER)

It would be so out of history that you would have the Cubs versus the Yanks.
Then I'd be really in trouble.


 Well, I would probably have to alternate sides. 

(LAUGHTER)


 Well, I'm relieved that the intelligence community has reached this conclusion, but I vehemently disagree with the president that nothing's changed and therefore nothing in American policy has to change. 

I have for two years advocated diplomatic engagement with Iran, and I think
that's what the president should do. He should seize this opportunity and
engage in serious diplomacy, using both carrots and sticks.

I think we do know that pressure on Iran does have an effect. I think that is
an important lesson. But we're not going to reach the kind of resolution that
we should seek unless we put that into the context of a diplomatic process.


 Well, there were other purposes for that resolution. It does label the Iranian Revolutionary Guard as a terrorist organization. And there is evidence that they do support Hamas and Hezbollah, as Senator Obama just said; and, in addition, have until recently, been supplying weapons and technical advisers to various factions within Iraq. 

Since that resolution passed, which was nonbinding and did not in any way
authorize the president to take any action that would lead to war, our
commanders on the ground in Iraq have announced that we've seen some progress
from the Iranians backing off; no longer sending in weapons and materiel and
beginning to withdraw their technical advisers.


 Well, many of us believe that. 

You know, earlier this year Senator Edwards told an audience in Israel that
the nuclear threat from Iran was the greatest threat to our generation. Back
in 2004, Senator Obama told the Chicago Tribune editorial board that he would
even consider surgical strikes by missiles to take out Iran's nuclear
capacity.

So there was a very broadly based belief that they were pursuing a nuclear
weapon.


 Well, I did, along with many others, including strong opponents of the Iraq war and the use of military force, like Senator Dick Durbin and Senator Carl Levin. 

And all of us have said that if we thought that anything in that resolution
gave even a pretense of legitimacy to President Bush taking any action, we
wouldn't have voted that way.

In fact, a number of the Democrats worked furiously to clarify the meaning of
that resolution.

The specifics about designating the Iranian Revolutionary Guard as a terrorist
organization I believe fits into a broader diplomatic effort. I believe in
aggressive diplomacy when it comes to Iran. And when you engage in aggressive
diplomacy, you need both carrots and sticks.

And I think the designation provides one of those sticks that will give us a
chance to make progress to where we could have a resolution.


 Well, I understand politics, and I understand making outlandish political charges, but this really goes way too far. 

In fact, having designated the Iranian Revolutionary Guard a terrorist
organization, we've actually seen some changes in their behavior.

There is absolutely no basis for a rush to war, which I oppose and have
opposed for two years.

But there is also a recognition that the Iranians were supplying weapons that
killed Americans, they were supplying technical assistance from the Quds
Force, which is their special operations element.

So I think we've actually seen the positive effects of having labeled them a
terrorist organization because it did change their behavior.


 I think, first of all, it's important to recognize the Ahmadinejad does not control the Iranian Revolutionary Guard. They are directly controlled from the clerical leadership and the supreme leader. 

And, in fact, because we have not engaged in diplomacy, we are quite unsure
about what exactly goes on inside of Iran, which is one of the reasons why
I've advocated diplomatic efforts for two years.

If we were to engage in such diplomatic efforts, because of the enmeshment of
the Iranian Revolutionary Guard in the economic activity of Iran, I believe
these economic sanctions, as part of diplomacy, would be an advantage going in
to those diplomatic efforts.

I have the greatest respect for my friend and colleague, Joe Biden. He and I
just respectfully disagree about this. But I think that the important issues
is that this is something that we have strong feelings about.


 But none of us is advocating a rush to war. I have been against that. I was the first of anyone at this table to go to the floor of the Senate, speak against the possibility that Bush could take us to war in Iran, back in February. 

And I think that we have two different ways of approaching this. Our goals are
the same: diplomatic engagement with Iran.


 Well, it will be a doctrine of restoring America's leadership and moral authority through multilateral organizations, through attempts to come to agreements on issues ranging from global warming to stopping the proliferation of nuclear weapons and other dangerous weapons. 


 It will be a doctrine that demonstrates that the United States is not afraid to cooperate; that through cooperation in our inter-dependent world, we actually can build a stronger country and a stronger world that will be more reflective of our values. 


 Well, your question about leverage is related to that -- the second question. 

We currently still have more leverage, but it doesn't really count because
we're not using it. We have handicapped ourselves because of the irresponsible
fiscal policies pursued by the Bush economic direction. But we've also,
unfortunately, seen an incoherent foreign policy.

So until we set our fiscal house back in order and until we understand that we
have to have a strategic relationship with China, it's going to be very
difficult for us to use whatever leverage we have.

And I fear that if we don't start taking steps to demonstrate that we are back
in charge of our fiscal destiny, that we do have a coherent diplomatic
approach toward China, China will continue to gain leverage over us.


 Well, first, I really sympathize with the young mother, because we don't do anywhere near enough to try to prevent dangerous materials and products from coming into our country. We don't even do enough of it within our own country. We have totally turned our back on the information that is available to try to better track the impact on children and others of these kinds of exposures to toxic materials. 

So, number one, we need tougher standards across the board; something I've
been advocating for for years.

Number two, it should be especially applied to any kind of imports, and the
requires going and making sure that we have inspectors on the ground and we
have tough standards and we exercise recalls.

You know, the reason we have such few recalls, even though they have been
increasing, because the evidence has been so overwhelming, is because this
administration has basically de-fanged the Consumer Product Safety Commission,
they do not have any real appetite for going after these companies and
countries that are flooding our markets with dangerous products, and that has
to stop.


 Well, I agree with Joe very much. You know, 12 years ago, I went to China and the Chinese didn't want me to come. And they didn't want me to make a speech. 

And when I made the speech, they blocked it out from being heard within China,
where I stood up for human rights and, in particular, women's rights, because
women had been so brutally abused in many settings in China.

And I think you do have to call them on it. I mean, the Chinese respect us if
we actually call them on their misbehavior and their breaches of human rights,
economic activities and other kinds of problems that we have with them.

That's what I object to about this administration. We've gotten the worst of
both worlds. We've gotten neither the kind of smart enforcement nor the kind
of cooperation that might lead to changes in behavior. Instead, we have this
erratic, incoherent policy.

So I think it's important that as the next president I would make it very
clear what we expect from China and use every tool at our disposal to try to
change behavior.


 Well, I certainly did. I not only advised, I often met with he and his advisers, both in preparation for, during and after. I traveled with representatives from the Security Council, the State Department, occasionally the Defense Department and even the CIA. 

So I was deeply involved in being part of the Clinton team, in the first
Clinton administration.

And I am someone who wants the best possible advice from as many different
sources as possible. And that would certainly include my husband.


 No. No, absolutely not. It would be a position where we would operate from strength, with a coherent policy about what our interests were and what we hoped to achieve. I'll give you a quick example. I have a company in my state that has exported into China for many years. 

All of a sudden, out of the blue, they were told that they were going to start
having tariffs slapped on their product that would have made it absolutely
uncompetitive for them to compete.

Their alternative was to go into business with some Chinese company, more than
likely some kind of front group for the People's Army, and therefore lose
their intellectual property.

And so I helped them stand up to that. And they respected it and backed down.


 Well, I agree with what Barack and Chris and Dennis have already said. It's the failure of the federal government that puts people like Amy into this position. 

I do not think we should be criminalizing her or expecting her to enforce the
broken laws of our federal immigration system.

In fact, I spoke out very strongly against an effort that was undertaken in
the House of Representatives to do just that, to basically say, anyone who
offered aid, comfort, or any kind of service to someone in need who turned out
to be an illegal immigrant was going to face criminal penalties.

That is not in keeping with who we are as Americans. What is in keeping is
having a government fulfill its responsibilities. That would be my highest
priority, and that's what I would attempt to achieve with comprehensive
immigration reform.

_QUESTION:_ Although, if a citizen witnessed some other kind of crime,
wouldn't you want them to report it?


 Well, you know, it's a very clever question, but I think it really begs the question. Because what we're looking at here is 12 million to 14 million people. They live in our neighborhoods. They take care of our elderly parents. They probably made the beds in the hotels that some of us stayed in last night. 

They are embedded in our society. If we want to listen to the demagogues and
the calls for us to begin to try to round up people and turn every American
into a suspicious vigilante, I think we will do graver harm to the fabric of
our nation than any kind of person-by- person reporting of someone who might
be here illegally.

I reject that.

I think again, you have to look at the failure of the federal government and
the failure of our political system to make a change in how we should be
enforcing our immigration laws, and that's what I will try to do.


 No, there is no contradiction. You know, comprehensive immigration reform means five things. You have to have tough border security plus a system of knowing who's here and what they're doing. 

Secondly, you've got to crack down on employers, because people wouldn't come
if there weren't a job waiting for them.

Third, you've got to provide more help to local communities to be able to bear
the cost, because they don't set immigration policy.

Fourth, you do have to do what Chris Dodd is talking about, and that is, try
to create some economic activity by working with the countries to our south.

But, fifth, you've got to have a path toward legalization.

And I'm in favor of all of that.


 And I just want to... 


 Well, yes, it will. But let's put this in context, because, you know, sometimes we talk about these issues as though they're stove piped. 

Part of the reason we're having this contentious, demagogic debate right now
about immigration is because the economy is not performing for average
Americans.

Yes, the reported unemployment rate is 4.7 percent. But the labor force
participation rate has fallen dramatically. That means people have given up
looking for work.

There is no effort to try to ease the transitions that do happen in any
economy.

You know, I traveled this country extensively during the 1990s. I did not hear
this kind of contentious debate. Why? Because we had 22.7 million new jobs.
People's incomes were rising. They felt like there was plenty of opportunity
to go around.

Now, Americans feel like they're standing on a trapdoor.


 I will crack down on employers. I will do all five things that I just outlined. But I think it's important to look at where this debate is often taken to such an extreme, because you'll hear the voices of those saying, Deport people. Round them up. 

That is absolutely unrealistic, and it is not in keeping with American values.

The best estimates I have is it would take about $200 billion over five years
to round up 12 to 14 million people. It would takes tens of thousands, if not
hundreds of thousands, of new law enforcement officials. It would take a
convoy of 200,000 buses stretching 1,700 miles.

People in America would be outraged at the loss of their privacy and the
invasion of their homes and businesses.

So we've got to do all five of the things, and I would start immediately to do
that.


 Well, there's three different points here. First, we need to have English as a common, unifying language. It's an important part of who we are and how we keep this big, diverse country of ours going. 

Secondly, as Barack said, there are a lot of Americans who are citizens who
speak different languages. I represent New York City. I think there's like 170
languages and dialects. The city would be in total chaos if people didn't get
some services and some, you know, help in the language that they actually
understood.

And, thirdly, you know, part of what the challenge here is is to make it clear
that we do expect people who want to become legal in America to try to learn
English. But that doesn't mean that they have to give up the language that
they originally had.

But we have to do more with English as second language, more help in schools,
to get people to be able to speak and comprehend English.


 Oh, there's a lot things I don't know the answer to. 


 Well, I mean, obviously, everything we started off talking about in the beginning of this debate. 

We're going to have so much repair work to do around the world. What are the
best ways to try to stabilize the very difficult problems we face, from Iran
to China? And I have some very clear ideas about it, but I'm not going to sit
here and say that I have the answers.


 Well, you know, I think that -- you know, when you are running for president, you do your very best to try to anticipate what the problems are going to be. 

I think we have such serious issues when it comes to the economy. I think
we're heading into some very turbulent waters on the economy. How are we going
to balance what we need to do to perhaps stimulate our way out of some very
difficult economic conditions, which are certainly being predicted now, at the
same time getting back to making sure we don't put the burden on the middle
class?

And I intend to have an economic policy that will get us through what I'm
afraid we're going to inherit from the Bush administration.


 I will institute those very same approaches. 

You can't do it in a year. It'll take time. But the economy will grow again
when we start acting fiscally responsible. And then we can save money in the
government by cutting out private contractors, closing loopholes, getting the
health care system to be more efficient.

We'll do all of this at the same time, but the results will take awhile for us
to actually see.


 Well, I think it's important that we recognize how people feel in Iowa and across America. They feel as though they're standing at on a trap door. They are one pink slip, one missed mortgage payment, one medical diagnosis away from falling through. 

I want to restore the tax rates that we had in the '90s. That means raising
taxes on corporations and wealthy individuals. I want to keep the middle class
tax cuts. And I want to start making changes that will actually save us money
-- save us money in our Medicare budget, save us money for the average
American.

You know, during the '90s the typical Iowan family's income rose $7,000. We
can get back to fiscal responsibility and economic growth again.


 Well, it is a problem. It's a particular problem with Medicare, where we have a very immediate set of challenges. It's a longer-term problem with Social Security. We have to deal with both. 

Part of that is getting back to fiscal responsibility. Part of it is reforming
government programs.

You know, Medicare is especially vulnerable because the costs are going up so
quickly. That's why we do need to give Medicare the right to negotiate for
lower drug prices with the drug companies.

That's why we need to rein in the excess payments to the HMOs. They're getting
paid $1,000 more per patient than what your doctor would get just being on a
personal relationship with you.


 We've got to have a health care reform like the one that I have proposed, the American Health Choices Plan, that will bring costs down. I have very aggressive cost-reduction measures. That will help Medicare. 

And with respect to Social Security, I think that the best way we're going to
deal with the long-term challenges is when I'm president to convene a
bipartisan commission, because Republicans and Democrats are going to have to
agree to make the changes that are necessary.


 Well, it should be changed. 

You know, I think it's important for us to look at the entire context here.
You know, you have winners and losers from trade right here in Iowa: people
who are gaining because we're exporting and people who, John has rightly
pointed out, have lost their jobs.

I want to be a president who focuses on smart, pro-American trade.


 I will review every trade agreement. I'm going to ask for revisions that I think will actually benefit our country, particularly our workers, our exporters. 

And I'm going to go to the international community and get the kind of
enforceable agreements and standards on labor and environment that we have
been seeking as Democrats.

Because we need to make it clear to the rest of the world that we are an open
society, we believe in trade, but we don't want to be the trade patsies of the
world. We want to have an equivocal (sic), balanced relationship.

And that's what I will do as president. And NAFTA will be part of that review,
to try to reform and improve it.


 Well, I think it's imperative that we address this issue. And I think your question was, "Well, will how we do it effect the average American?" 

Yes, it will. That's part of what we're going to have to tell people.


 I advocate a cap-and-trade system. What I want to do with the auction of pollution permits is to take a lot of that money and invest it in new technologies, new ways of getting to our objectives that I've outlined in my energy plan. 

I want to use some of it, though, to cushion the costs that will come onto the
American consumer.

But it's not just enough to have an energy plan, not just enough to attack
global warming. We've got to enlist the American people the way we did in a
previous generation for the Apollo program.

As a little girl, I remember being thrilled about that and feeling that there
was something I could do. My 5th grade teacher said it was to study math and
science, but it gave me an idea of actually contributing to my country.

This has to call for a new form of American patriotism. So when people,
particularly on the other side of the aisle, talk about how we will wreck the
economy and impose all of these costs, that is what is happening right now.

We cannot sustain the current energy profile in this country. That's why we
have to act. And we will act in a way that brings the country together and
lifts us up and gives us a feeling that we are, once again, reaching for the
stars, only we're going to do it right here on Earth.


 Carolyn, do you want to ask us to raise our hands about global warming? 


 It didn't get a very good response from Republicans yesterday. 

(LAUGHTER)


 But we all want to be on record. 

(LAUGHTER)

We believe in it.

(LAUGHTER)

We think it's a real problem.


 Well, I think you're referring to the Lugar-Lautenberg bill. And I have been following Senator Harkin's lead on what needs to be done with the farm bill. 


 So I would have voted against that and then voted as I did today for the limit on subsidies. 

But this really goes beyond a particular amendment. There's so much that we
could do that would really help family farmers and help rural development.
I've got a dozen or so of my family farmers from New York traveling around
Iowa today, talking to family farmers about what I've been trying to do to
open up more markets, to give more support, to see rural economic development
more broadly.

So we do need a farm bill, and Tom Harkin's been working like a Trojan to get
done. And he's making progress but he keeps getting beaten back all the time
on conservation, on environment stewardship, on subsidy limits.

And, when I'm president, we're going to finally make these changes. Because I
believe that if we don't, we're going to see, increasingly, our family farmers
as an endangered species. That's not good for any of us.

So I'm going to do everything that I can to get to a point where truly have a
farm policy for family farmers.


 Everywhere I go across Iowa, I'm impressed by the people I meet and touched by the stories they tell me, especially the first-time caucus-goers. And every one wants change. 

Well, everybody on this stage has an idea about how to get change. Some
believe you get change by demanding it. Some believe you get it by hoping for
it.

I believe you get it by working hard for change. That's what I've done my
entire life. That's what I will do as president.

I will end the war in Iraq and bring our sons and daughters home. I will get
quality, affordable health care for every single American. And will not rest
until every child has a chance to live up to his or her God-given potential.

So I hope you will go caucus for me on January 3rd. Stand up for me and I'll
stand up for you during this campaign and when I'm in the White House.


 I do, because I've worked on behalf of education reform for a very long time, and I know that the president has a certain bully pulpit that can be used on behalf of education, to do exactly what Chris and Barack and others have said. 


 I'm privileged, you know, to have a family that supported me in education. My daughter's here today. Obviously, Bill and I were incredibly focused on her education. 

So the federal government only pays 10 percent of the cost of public
education. Let's use those dollars strategically. Let's do what we've said we
were going to do.

How about funding special education, which we never have to the extent that we
promised, putting a lot of burdens on states and local districts?

How about fully funding whatever we ask the local communities to do?

So I want to have a very holistic view of this, because if you go into a
classroom today, it doesn't look like the 21st century in most instances, it
looks very familiar to me, who was last in a classroom decades ago.

We've got to bring it in to the 21st century. And I will use both the bully
pulpit and legislative and executive efforts to do that.


 Well, I'm going to be busy because I know how important it is to get started and get started quickly. 

So I will begin to end the war in Iraq and bring all of our troops home. I
will send bipartisan emissaries around the world with a very simple message:
The era of cowboy diplomacy is over.

We're going to start working together to try to find common ground wherever
possible. I will review every executive order, rescind those that undermine
the Constitution and betray the rule of law, and issue some, like, for
example, not interfering with science and ending Bush's war on science.

I'll ask the Congress to send me everything that Bush vetoed, like stem cell
research and the Children's Health Insurance Program, and begin to prepare my
legislative and budget proposals for the Congress, because you have to move
quickly in order to get off to a good start, and that's what I intend to do.


 Well, I learned a lot from that experience. And, clearly, one of the principal lessons is that you have to have a very strong communication strategy. And we didn't do that. 

And I have certainly learned from that during the remaining years in the White
House when I helped to create the children's health insurance program and did
a lot of other work with the Clinton administration and, of course, now in the
Senate.


 I want to have an open and transparent government. I have put forth very specific plans for how I would reform the government, put as much as we can on the Internet. 

Now we've got this tool, let's use it. Let's have as much sunlight as we
possibly can gather.

Let's also make sure that we have an administration that works with the
Congress instead of stonewalling and denying legitimate requests for
information and witness testimony and all the rest that this administration,
unfortunately, has done.

I think it's also very important that we end the revolving door of lobbyists,
that we move toward public financing. I've signed on to Russ Feingold's bill
because I think it is the best piece of legislation to try to make those
changes.

So I'm very committed to open, transparent government. And I've learned a lot
and I think I can apply those lessons.


 Here, here! 

(APPLAUSE)


 What are you laughing at? 

(LAUGHTER)


 I would use them the way presidents before this president used them. They were used to clarify the law to perhaps make it more coherent with other laws that have been passed. 

And along came President Bush. He's used them as essentially a from of veto.
He did it through a piece of legislation I passed, where it was pretty simple.
I said: If you're going to have a FEMA director, it should be somebody with
experience handling emergencies.

(LAUGHTER)

I know. Who would think that it would be a complicated issue And we actually
had to pass it through the Congress. And when George Bush signed the bill it
was part of, he specifically used a signing statement to say, "I don't have to
follow that, unless I choose to."

So let's quit with all of the perversion of the Constitution and the role of
law. Let's get back to what presidents did in both parties and, hopefully,
remove the legacy of George W. Bush.


 Well, my New Years' resolution is multi-part, as you might guess. You know, I have a lot of things that I think about resolving. And, you know, there are personal sides to it -- obviously, spending time with my family, trying to do what some of my colleagues do religiously, and that's exercise. 

But I'm also resolved to do the very best job I can in this campaign, to
rebuild the optimism and confidence of the American people, to run a campaign
that the Democrats can be proud of and that independents and Republicans can
support, and then to go into the White House with the country behind me, and
ready to serve.


 Well, I want to thank the people of Iowa, because it's been a wonderful experience for me. I've eaten my way across the state. 

(LAUGHTER)

Had a great time at the state fair. I've met so many wonderful people.

And I think the intimacy, the personal connection, the relationship building
that I've experienced over this last year has just been extraordinary for me.


 And I will never forget the people of Iowa. And I hope that I will be a good president for those people who believed in me. 


 Well, I think that what's most important is that Senator Obama and I agree completely that, you know, neither race nor gender should be a part of this campaign. 

It is Dr. King's birthday. The three of us are here in large measure because
his dreams have been realized: you know, John, who is, as we know, a son of a
mill worker and, you know, really has become an extraordinary success; Senator
Obama, who has such an inspirational and profound story to tell America and
the world; I, as a woman who is also beneficiary of the civil rights movement
and the women's movement and the human rights movement. And the Democratic
Party has always been in the forefront of that.

So I very much appreciate what Senator Obama and I did yesterday, which is
that we both have exuberant and sometimes uncontrollable supporters, that we
need to get this campaign where it should be.

And we're all family in the Democratic Party. We are so different from the
Republicans on all of these issues, in every way that affects the future of
the people that we care so much about.

So I think that it's appropriate on Dr. King's birthday, his actual birthday,
to recognize that all of us are here as the result of what he did, all of the
sacrifice, including giving his life, along with so many of the other icons
that we honor. But I know that Senator Obama and I share a very strong
commitment to making sure that this campaign is about us as individuals.


 Well, Bob has put out a statement saying what he was trying to say and what he thought he had said. We accept him on his word on that. 

But clearly we want to send a very clear message to everybody that this
campaign is too important for us to either get diverted or frankly get the
message of what we want to do for our country subverted by any kind of
statements or claims that are just not part of who I am or who Barack or John
are, because I think what's critical here is that the American people
understand clearly what is at stake in this election.

The stakes are really high, and there's an urgent need for leadership on a
range of issues, you know, some of which are now becoming, right here in front
of us, about whether or not people are going to be able to keep their homes in
Nevada, whether they're going to have jobs.

You know, I went door to door in Las Vegas last week and, you know, I met
construction workers who've been laid off. I met a casino employee who's
already been laid off. So what people talk to me about is not what somebody
they never heard of said but what we say, what we're for, what we're standing
for and what we're going to be pushing for. So I accept what he said, but I
think what's important is what I say and what each of us says about the kind
of president we intend to be and how we're going to get there.


 Yes, they were, and he has said that. 


 Well, Tim, we're in a hard-fought primary season. I think each of us recognize that. 

You know, we're the survivors of what has been a yearlong campaign, but I
certainly have the highest regard for both Senator Obama and Senator Edwards.
I've worked with them. I have, you know, supported them in their previous runs
for office. There's no doubt that when we have a nominee, we're going to have
a totally unified Democratic Party.

The issue for the voters here in Nevada, South Carolina and then all of the
states to come is who is ready on day one to walk into that Oval Office
knowing the problems that are going to be there waiting for our next
president: a war to end in Iraq; a war to resolve in Afghanistan; an economy
that I believe is slipping toward a recession, with the results already being
felt here in Nevada with the highest home foreclosure rate in the entire
country; 47 million Americans uninsured; an energy policy that is totally
wrong for America, for our future.

You know, President Bush is over in Gulf now begging the Saudis and others to
drop the price of oil. How pathetic! We should have an energy policy right now
putting people to work in green-collar jobs as a way to stave off the
recession, moving us toward energy independence. All of that and more is
waiting for our next president.

You know, obviously, each of us believes that we are the person who should
walk into that Oval Office on January 20th, 2009. I'm presenting my
experience, my qualifications, my ideas, my vision for America. And it's
rooted in the voices that I hear -- that I've heard for 35 years -- of people
who want a better life for themselves and their children. And I'm going to
keep, you know, putting forward what I have done and what I will do. And this
is what this election, I think, is really about.


 Well, I think that that's up to the voters to decide. I think that that's something that voters have to make a decision about on all of us. They have to look at each and every one of us and imagine us in the Oval Office, imagine us as commander in chief, imagine us making tough decisions about everything we know we're going to have to deal with, and then all of the unpredictable events that come through the door of the White House and land on the desk of the president. 


 Well, I am passionately committed to this country and what it stands for. I'm a product of the changes that have already occurred, and I want to be an instrument for making those changes alive and real in the lives of Americans, particularly children. That's what I've done for 35 years. It is really my life's work. It is something that comes out of my own experience, both in my family and in my church; that, you know, I've been blessed. And I think to whom much is given, much is expected. 

So I have tried to create opportunities, both on an individual basis,
intervening to help people who have nowhere else to turn, to be their champion
-- I meant to make those changes, and I think I can deliver change.

I think I understand how to make it possible for more people to live up to
their God-given potential.

I get impatient. I get, you know, really frustrated when people don't seem to
understand that we can do so much more to help each other, and sometimes I
come across that way. I admit that. I get very concerned about, you know,
pushing further and faster than perhaps people are ready to go.

But I think that, you know, there is a difference here. You know, I do think
that being president is the chief executive officer, and I respect what Barack
said about setting the vision, setting the tone, bringing people together. But
I think you have to be able to manage and run the bureaucracy. You've got to
pick good people certainly but you have to hold them accountable every single
day.

We've seen the results of a president who frankly failed at that. You know, he
went in to office saying he was going to have the kind of Harvard Business
School CEO model, where he'd set the tone, he'd set the goals, and then
everybody else would have to implement it. And we saw the failures. We saw the
failures along the Gulf Coast with, you know, people who were totally
incompetent and insensitive, failing to help our fellow Americans.

We've seen the failures with holding the administration accountable with the
no-bid contracts and the cronyism.

So I do think you have to do both. It's a -- it's a really hard job, and in
America we put, you know, the head of state and the head of government
together in one person. But I think you've got to set the tone, you've got to
set the vision, you've got to set the goals, you've got to bring the country
together. And then you do have to manage and operate and hold that bureaucracy
accountable to get the results you're trying to achieve.


 Brian, I'm very concerned about this. 

You know, about a month and a half or so ago, I raised this concern because
these are called sovereign wealth funds. They are huge pools of money, largely
because of oil and economic growth in Asia. And these funds are controlled
often by governmental entities or individuals who are closely connected to the
governments in these countries.

I think we've got to know more about them. They need to be more transparent.
We need to have a lot more control over what they do and how they do it. I'd
like to see the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund begin to impose
these rules. And I want the United States Congress and the Federal Reserve
Board to ask these tough questions.

But let's look at how we got here. We got here because, as I said on Wall
Street on December 5th, a lot of our big financial institutions, you know,
made these bets on these subprime mortgages. They helped to create this
meltdown that is happening, that is costing millions of people who live in
homes that are being foreclosed on or could be in the very near future because
the interest rates are going up. And what they did was to take all these
subprime mortgages and conventional mortgages, bundle them up and sell them
overseas to big investors. So we're getting the worst of both worlds.

We can't figure out under this administration what we should do. I have a plan
-- a moratorium on foreclosures for 90 days, freezing interest rates for five
years, which I think we should do immediately. The administration is doing
very little. And what we now see is our financial institutions having to go
hat in hand to borrow money from these foreign funds.

I'm very concerned about it. I'd like to see us move much more aggressively
both to deal with the immediate problem with the mortgages and to deal with
these sovereign wealth funds.


 Sure, I do. It never became law, as you know. It got tied up. It was a bill that had some things I agreed with and other things I didn't agree with, and I was happy that it never became law. And I opposed the 2005 bill as well. 

But let's talk about where we are now with bankruptcy. We need urgently to
have bankruptcy reform in order to get the kind of options available for
homeowners. In addition to what I want to do, which is the moratorium on
foreclosures for 90 days to see what we can do to work them out, and freezing
interest rates for five years, and making the mortgage industry more
transparent so we actually know what they're doing -- I mean, look what
happened with Countrywide. You know, Countrywide gets bought and the CEO, who
was one of the architects of this whole subprime mess, is sent off with $110
million -- $110 million in severance pay. You know, the priorities and the
values are absolutely wrong. So what we've got to do is move urgently.

In addition to what I've proposed, I think we've got to reform the bankruptcy
law right now going forward so that people who are caught in these subprime
and now increasingly conventional loans that they can't pay because of the way
the interest rates are going up, and many of the fraudulent and predatory
practices that got people into them in the first place, will have the option
of getting relieved of this debt. So there's a lot we need to do right now.

And you know, I want to just add that -- that the groups that sponsored this
are primarily black and brown groups, that care deeply about these issues.
Everything we're talking about falls disproportionately on African Americans,
on Hispanics, on a lot of Asian Americans. Here in Nevada, the African
American and Hispanic communities are really the ones who are most victimized
by these subprime mortgages.

They're the ones who are often the first to be let go when the economy begins
to slide. You know, in and out of the homes that I have visited in here in Las
Vegas, those are the stories that I'm hearing.

So we need to move urgently. We have a lot of big agenda items that I agree
with John on -- universal health care, college affordability -- but we can't
wait. We're going to lose another, you know, million Americans in home
foreclosures. We're going to see a deteriorating community across America
because homes will be left vacant. The housing market is down. Nobody will buy
those homes. Housing wealth, which is the principal source of American middle
class wealth, is now decreasing.

So I have a real sense of urgency. We need to be acting now. And I know that
the Democratic Congress under Senator Harry Reid and Speaker Pelosi are going
to do everything they can to address this.


 (Chuckles.) 


 Well, I -- I want to ask Senator Obama to join me in doing something. You know, we both very much want to convince President Bush -- which is not easy to do -- in the remaining year to end the war in Iraq, to change direction. 

It appears that not only is he refusing to do that, but that he has continued
to say he can enter into an agreement with the Iraqi government, without
bringing it for approval to the United States Congress, that would continue
America's presence in Iraq long after President Bush leaves office. I find
that absolutely unacceptable, and I think we have to do everything we can to
prevent President Bush from binding the hands of the next president.

So I have introduced legislation that clearly requires President Bush to come
to the United States Congress -- it is not enough, as he claims, to go to the
Iraqi parliament -- but to come to the United States Congress to get anything
that he's trying to do, including permanent bases, numbers of troops, all the
other commitments he's talking about as he's traveling in that region.

And I -- I want to ask, Senator Obama, if you will cosponsor my legislation to
try to rein in President Bush so that he doesn't commit this country to his
policy in Iraq, which both of us are committed to end.


 Oh, yes, I'm on record as saying exactly that, as soon as I become president, we will start withdrawing within 60 days. We will move as carefully and responsibly as we can, one to two brigades a month, I believe, and we'll have nearly all the troops out by the end of the year, I hope. 


 It's not only George Bush. 


 I just want to add here... 


 Well, I think that what Barack is what John and I also meant at that same time, because, obviously, we have to be responsible, we have to protect our embassy, we do need to make sure that, you know, our strategic interests are taken care of. 

But it's not only George Bush. The Republican candidates running for the
presidency are saying things that are very much in line with president Bush.

You know, Senator McCain said the other day that we might have troops there
for 100 years, Barack.

I mean, they have an entirely different view than we do about what we need to
have happening as soon as we get a Democrat elected president.


 Yes, I will. You know, I think that the young men and women who voluntarily join our all-volunteer military are among the best of our country. 

I want to do everything I can, as president, to make sure that they get the
resources and the help that they deserve. I want a new, 21st-century G.I. Bill
of Rights so that our young veterans can get the money to get to college and
to buy a home and start a business.

And I've worked very hard, on the Senate Armed Services Committee, to, you
know, try to make up for some of the negligence that we've seen from the Bush
administration.

You know, Tim, the Bush administration sends mixed messages. They want to
recruit and retain these young people to serve our country and then they have
the Pentagon trying to take away the signing bonuses when a soldier gets
wounded and ends up in the hospital, something that I'm working with a
Republican senator to try to make sure never can happen again.


 So I think we should recognize that national service of all kinds is honorable and its essential to the future of our country. I want to expand civilian national service. 

But I think that everyone should make available an opportunity for a young man
or woman to be in ROTC, to be able to join the military and I'm going to do
everything I can to support the men and women in the military and their
families.


 Well, there are ways they can work out fulfilling that obligation. But they should certainly not do anything that either undermines or disrespects the young men and women who wish to pursue a military career. 


 This is... 


 And, John, I was able to pass legislation to begin to provide the physical and mental evaluations so that we could begin to treat this. 

And, you know, we have 1,200 people in Nevada who sign up to join the military
every year. They're now going to be getting these exams because we've got to
track what happens to young men and women when they go into the military, then
provide the services for them.


 Well, I voted against Yucca Mountain in 2001. I have been consistently against Yucca Mountain. I held a hearing in the Environment Committee, the first that we've had in some time, looking at all the reasons why Yucca Mountain is not workable. The science does not support it. We do have to figure out what to do with nuclear waste. 

You know, Barack has one of his biggest supporters in terms of funding, the
Exelon Corporation (NYSE:EXC) , which has spent millions of dollars trying to
make Yucca Mountain the waste depository. John was in favor of it twice when
he voted to override President Clinton's veto and then voted for it again.

I have consistently and persistently been against Yucca Mountain, and I will
make sure it does not come into effect when I'm president.


 Well, John, you did vote for Yucca Mountain twice, and you didn't respond to that part of the question. 


 Well, Tim, I think it's well accepted that the 2005 energy bill was the Dick Cheney lobbyist energy bill. It was written by lobbyists. It was championed by Dick Cheney. It wasn't just the green light that it gave to more nuclear power. It had enormous giveaways to the oil and gas industries. 


 It was the wrong policy for America. It was so heavily tilted toward the special interests that many of us, at the time, said, you know, that's not going to move us on the path we need, which is toward clean, renewable green energy. 

I think that we have to, you know, break the lock of the special interests.
That's why I've proposed a strategic energy fund (TSX:SEF.UN) (TSX:SEF'R) ,
$50 billion to invest in clean, renewable energy.

How would I do that? Take the tax subsidies that were given in the 2005 that
Dick Cheney wrote; take them away from the gas and oil industry. They don't
need our tax dollars to make these enormous profits.

Let's put to work the money that we should get from the oil and gas industry,
in terms of windfall profits taxes, so that we can begin to really put big
dollars behind this shift toward clean, renewable, green energy.

It's not going to happen by hoping for it. And these small, you know, pieces
of puzzle that are starting to take shape around the country are not
sufficient for us to break our addiction to foreign oil.


 So that 2005 energy bill was big step backwards on the path to clean, renewable energy. That's why I voted against it. That's why I'm standing for the proposition -- let's take away the giveaways that were given to gas and oil, put them to work on solar and wind and geothermal and biofuels and all the rest that we need for a new energy future. 


 Well, I have a comprehensive energy plan that I have put forth. It does not rely on nuclear power for all of the reasons that we've discussed. I have said we should not be siting any more coal-powered plants unless they can have the most modern, clean technology. And I want big demonstration projects to figure out how we would capture and sequester carbon. 

But you know, this is going to take a massive effort. This should be our
Apollo moon shot.


 This is where a president needs to come in and say, "We can do this, America. You know, we can make this change." We've got to do it by having a partnership with what needs to happen in Washington, but there's work for everybody to do -- the states, communities and individuals. 

That's what I want to summon the country to achieve, and I think we can make
it.


 No, he was making a historical statement. And, obviously, what we're trying to do is to bring America together so that everybody feels like they're involved and they have a stake in the future. 

This is a black/brown debate. We haven't actually talked about black/brown
issues -- I regret that. And I think that we have a lot that we can do
together.

You know, Tavis Smiley's "Covenant" is a great way to start.


 There's a lot that we should be doing. I've worked with many of the Latino groups, over many years. We've got work on education and health care. 

The agenda for America is the agenda for African-Americans and for Hispanics.
And we need to merge that and we need to have a political system where people
feel like they can vote for anybody because we're all on the same page; we're
all going to make progress together.

But I wanted to follow up, quickly, on something that...


 Could we just follow up on this? Tim, could we just follow up on this? 

Because, you know, again, this is a black/brown debate, and this is one of the
most important issues. And I really commend Barack for, you know, taking on
the full range.

You know, this has to start in the families. This is what I've done for 35
years. We've got to do more to give families the tools and the support that
they should have so that they can be the best parents. You know, they are a
child's first teachers.

And I want to commend the 100 Black Men, because I worked with the 100 Black
Men in New York to help create the Eagle Academy, a high school for young
African-American and Latino men.


 And the 100 Black Men in New York said they would mentor these young men. 

We also need more involvement from the community. It's not only the family;
it's not only the school system. We all have a role to play. And that's going
to be one of our highest priorities.


 Well, I am against illegal guns, and illegal guns are the cause of so much death and injury in our country. I also am a political realist and I understand that the political winds are very powerful against doing enough to try to get guns off the street, get them out of the hands of young people. 

The law in New York was as you state, and the law in New York has worked to a
great extent.


 I don't want the federal government preempting states and cities like New York that have very specific problems. 

So here's what I would do. We need to have a registry that really works with
good information about people who are felons, people who have been committed
to mental institutions like the man in Virginia Tech who caused so much death
and havoc. We need to make sure that that information is in a timely manner,
both collected and presented.

We do need to crack down on illegal gun dealers. This is something that I
would like to see more of.

And we need to enforce the laws that we have on the books. I would also work
to reinstate the assault weapons ban. We now have, once again, police deaths
going up around the country, and in large measure because bad guys now have
assault weapons again. We stopped it for awhile. Now they're back on the
streets.

So there are steps we need to take that we should do together. You know, I
believe in the Second Amendment. People have a right to bear arms. But I also
believe that we can common-sensically approach this.


 Yes. 


 Well, what I said is what you quoted, and I'm not going to characterize it, but it is the fact. You know, the fact is that we face a very dangerous adversary, and to forget that or to brush it aside, I think, is a mistake. 

So I do feel that the next president has to be prepared because we are up
against a relentless enemy. And they will take advantage of us. They will
certainly, as they have over the last several years, continue their attacks
against our friends and allies around the world.

You know, we haven't talked as much about homeland security as I think is
necessary in this campaign. Maybe I feel it acutely because I do represent New
York.


 But the highest and greatest duty of the president of the United States is to protect and defend our country. And at the end of the day, voters have to make that decision, among all of us, Democrats and Republicans, who are vying for the votes. 

Because it is a critical question. It always is. There are, you know, reasons
going back in our history why that is so.

But in this time, in this period, where we're going to have to repair a lot of
the frayed relationships coming out of the Bush administration, where we're
going to have to summon the world to a concerted effort to quell the threat of
terrorism, to root them out wherever they are, it's going to be one of the
biggest jobs facing our next president.

And I feel prepared and ready to take on what is a daunting but necessary
responsibility.


 No, of course not, Tim. But it is a fact that immediately upon taking office the new prime minister in Great Britain, Gordon Brown, confronted, thankfully, two failed attacks by Al Qaida -- people who had gone and been trained in the training camps in Pakistan, who got their directions from Al Qaida operatives, who launched two massive bomb efforts in London and in Glasgow. 


 They didn't know how to ignite the bombs they had set, but the rammer their cars into the airport in Glasgow. 

Part of the reason why it matter who's president, in terms of operating the
government and the bureaucracy, is because we have a very constant need for
vigilance and preparedness.

There is no time off for the president on issues of security here at home, or
around the world.

And I think that there's a difference between what President Bush had done,
which has, frankly, used fear as a political weapon and a recognition, in a
very calm and deliberative way, that, yes, we have real enemies and we'd
better be prepared and we'd better be ready to meet them on day one.


 I made it over New Year's this past year. And I made it because I believe our country has to have a new beginning. Tomorrow in Reno, I'll be having an economic town hall, the first of a series of town halls to address, specifically, the economic anxieties, insecurities and problems that Americans have, to come up with solutions. 

You know, we've got to get back in the solutions business in America. I want
to be the problem-solver who lifts our sights and sets our goals.

And a year ago, I made the decision that I would get into this presidential
race. And it's been the most amazing and extraordinary year of my life. And I
thank everyone for making that happen.


 Well, Joe, I'm glad you started with the economy, because that is the number-one issue. What's been happening in the markets, what's been happening with the home mortgage crisis, $100-a-barrel oil, so many of the issues that are really at the kitchen tables of Americans today and what they're talking to me about.

We have to stimulate the economy. I began calling for some kind of economic
action plan back at the beginning of December. I have a package of $110
billion; $70 billion of that would go towards dealing with the mortgage
crisis, which, unfortunately, I don't think that President Bush has really
taken seriously enough.

I would have a moratorium on home foreclosures for 90 days to try to help
families work it out so that they don't lose their homes. We're in danger of
seeing millions of Americans become basically, you know, homeless and losing
the American dream.

I want to have an interest rate freeze for five years, because these
adjustable-rate mortgages, if they keep going up, the problem will just get
compounded. And we need more transparency in the market.

Then, I think we need to give people about $650, if they qualify -- which will
be millions of people -- to help pay their energy bills this winter. You know,
there are so many people on fixed incomes and working people who are not going
to be able to afford the spike in energy costs.

We need to make sure that we start jumpstarting the jobs in this country
again. That's why I want to put money into clean energy jobs, green-collar
jobs, and also make sure we have a fund that will help communities deal with
the consequences of the home foreclosure crisis and make sure the unemployment
system is up to the task.

And then we will have money for rebates, but let's make them the right
rebates. Everything we know about President Bush's plans would leave 50
million to 70 million Americans out, because a lot of our seniors on fixed
incomes don't pay income taxes. But that doesn't mean they're immune from the
energy costs and the health care costs and everything else that's going up
around them.

And we have a huge number of working people who thankfully don't pay income
tax. They pay payroll tax. They pay a lot of other taxes. President Bush's
plan would do nothing to help them.

But thankfully we've got leaders of the Congressional Black Caucus here who
are going to make sure that we get the right kind of stimulus. And that's what
the Democrats are going to support.

It's imperative we do it. It's a part of economic justice, which on Dr. King's
holiday is part of his unfinished legacy.


 That's what I want to get back to.


 Well, I want to just clarify a couple of points. My original plan was $70 billion in spending with a $40 billion contingency that was part of the original plan, in order to have that money available for tax rebates.

I hope that we could do it through spending, and here's why: I don't want to
necessarily open up the tax code while we've got Republicans in the Senate who
are going to try to come back and open up making Bush's tax cuts permanent.

(APPLAUSE)

I understand that that's a real risk. So I was hoping to be able to do it
through spending, but the crisis has gotten too deep, and what happened in the
markets globally today is a huge wakeup call.

The president should convene the working group on financial markets. He should
ask the secretary of treasury to do this immediately. I know that there's been
talking going on, but the president's proposed stimulus package is not
adequate. It is too little too late and it doesn't give enough money to the
people who are hardest hit by the increased costs in energy and everything
else.

(APPLAUSE)

As a further point, I do believe that the green-collar job piece of this is
important. That's why I have $5 billion to do it. There are programs already.
Oakland, California, Mayor Dellums is working to have a green-collar job
program. We could put hundreds and hundreds of young people to work right now,
putting solar panels in, insulating homes.

That would give them jobs and it would move us more quickly to a green
economy. And I think that if you look at this from a jobs and justice, a
stimulation and long-term planning effort, we need to lay down the markers
now. And that's why the Congress, under the leadership of a lot of the people
who are chairs of committees and subcommittees who are here today are going to
play a major role in this. And we've got to hold the line against President
Bush with his ill-advised approach to stimulating the economy.


 Well, I couldn't agree more. But I do think that your record and what you say does matter. And when it comes to...

(APPLAUSE)

... a lot of the issues that are important in this race, it is sometimes
difficult to understand what Senator Obama has said, because as soon as he is
confronted on it, he says that's not what he meant.

The facts are that he has said in the last week that he really liked the ideas
of the Republicans over the last 10 to 15 years, and we can give you the exact
quote.

Now, I personally think they had ideas, but they were bad ideas. They were bad
ideas for America.

(APPLAUSE)

They were ideas like privatizing Social Security, like moving back from a
balanced budget and a surplus to deficit and debt.

And with respect to putting forth how one would pay for all of the programs
that we're proposing in this campaign, I will be more than happy, Barack, to
get the information, because we have searched for it.

You have a lot of money that you want to put into foreign aid, a very worthy
program. There is no evidence from your Web site, from your speeches, as to
how you would pay for it.

Now, why is this important? It's important because I think elections are about
the future. But how do you determine what will happen in the future? Well, you
have to look to the record, you have to look to what we say in campaigns, and
what we have done during our careers.

And I want to be just very explicit about this. We are not, neither my
campaign nor anyone associated with it, are in any way saying you did not
oppose the war in Iraq.


 You did. You gave a great speech in 2002 opposing the war in Iraq. That was not what the point of our criticism was.

It was after having given that speech, by the next year the speech was off
your Web site. By the next year, you were telling reporters that you agreed
with President Bush in his conduct of the war. And by the next year, when you
were in the Senate, you were voting to fund the war time after time after
time.


 So it was more about the distinction between words and action. And I think that is a fair assessment for voters to make.

(APPLAUSE)


 Barack...


 I did not say anything about Ronald Reagan.


 You said two things.


 You talked about admiring Ronald Reagan and you talked about the ideas...


 I didn't talk about Reagan.


 Now, wait a minute.

Wolf, wait a minute. Wait a minute. Just a minute.


 I just want -- I just to clarify -- I want to clarify the record. Wait a minute.


 I just want to be sure...


 We're just getting warmed up.

(APPLAUSE)


 Now, I just -- I just want to be clear about this. In an editorial board with the Reno newspaper, you said two different things, because I have read the transcript. You talked about Ronald Reagan being a transformative political leader. I did not mention his name.


 Well, I'm here. He's not. And...


 Well, you know, I think we both have very passionate and committed spouses who stand up for us. And I'm proud of that.

But you also talked about the Republicans having ideas over the last 10 to 15
years.


 Well, you can read the context of it.


 Well, it certainly...


 It certainly came across in the way that it was presented, as though the Republicans had been standing up against the conventional wisdom with their ideas. I'm just reacting to the fact, yes, they did have ideas, and they were bad ideas.


 Bad for America, and I was fighting against those ideas when you were practicing law and representing your contributor, Resco, in his slum landlord business in inner city Chicago.

(APPLAUSE)


 No. I think it helps to mitigate the agony. I mean, what I hear as I go in and out of people's homes and talk to so many who have already lost their homes, they're in foreclosure, they see these interest rates that are about to go up and they know they can't pay them, is that we take action now.

I've been calling for action since last March. When I first started calling
for it, a lot of the same economists who now say don't do anything about it
said, well, it won't be that bad. We'll be able to weather the crisis.

Well, the fact is, the mortgage crisis is not only destroying the dreams of
Americans for home ownership, it is having a ripple effect across the world.
So my moratorium for 90 days is a work-out. It's not a bailout. I want people
to be able to see whether they can stay in their homes paying a rate that is
affordable for them.

And the interest rate freeze is I think merited, because look at what's
happening -- if you're a big bank that helped get us into this mess, you go
borrow money from Abu Dhabi or somewhere. If you're a homeowner who has been
at the bottom of this incredible scheme that was established, you're left
holding the bag and you don't have the house anymore.


 So I just disagree with those who say don't try to do anything to help the people who need the help right now.


 Wait, Wolf, I have to answer this.


 Now, let me start with the claim about the bankruptcy bill. I said very clearly I regretted voting for it and I was happy that it didn't get into law.

By 2005, there was another run at a bankruptcy reform, motivated by the credit
card companies and the other big lenders. I opposed that bill. I said very
forcefully I opposed that bill.

There was a particular amendment that I think is very telling. It was an
amendment to prohibit credit card companies from charging more than 30 percent
interest.

Senator Obama voted for it. I voted against it. It was one of the biggest
lobbyist victories on that very bad bill that the bankruptcy bill represented.

And I think it's important. You know, if you look at the recent article about
Senator Obama's work on health care reform in the Illinois legislature, it's a
very interesting piece about how he basically did the bidding of the insurance
companies during that effort.

Now, I'm just saying that if we're going to...


 ... be hurling these charges against one another, I'm used to taking the incoming fire. I've taken it for 16 years. But when you get into this arena...

(APPLAUSE)

... you can't expect to have a hands-off attitude about your record. And it is
perfectly fair to have comparisons and contrasts. I voted against a 30 -- I
voted for limiting to 30 percent what credit card companies could charge.

Senator Obama did not. That's a fact.

(CROSSTALK)


 So you voted with the credit card companies.


 That's the bottom line.


 Well...


 Well, you know, Senator Obama, it is very difficult having a straight-up debate with you, because you never take responsibility for any vote, and that has been a pattern.

You, in the -- now, wait a minute. In the Illinois state legislature...

(AUDIENCE BOOING)


 Just a minute. In the Illinois state senate, Senator Obama voted 130 times present. That's not yes, that's not no. That's maybe. And on issue after issue that really were hard to explain or understand, you know, voted present on keeping sex shops away from schools, voted present on limiting the rights of victims of sexual abuse, voted present time and time again.

And anytime anyone raises that, there's always some kind of explanation like
you just heard about the 30 percent. It's just very difficult to get a
straight answer, and that's what we are probing for.


 Well, that law is still on the books. It was never struck down. That was there.


 Well, first of all, my health care program will cover everyone. I don't leave anybody out. It is a universal system. It will build on the congressional plan that provides health care for members of Congress, their staffs, government employees, and therefore it is not a new system.


 It is not government-run. It has the advantage of being proven, so that we can withstand what will be obviously the attacks coming from the Republicans, and the right, and the drug companies, and the health insurance companies.

It also will give comprehensive health care to everyone. It's especially
important we do that with chronic diseases.

And, thankfully (sic) HIV/AIDS has become a chronic disease. We're able to
keep people alive in the United States. We don't do enough around the world.
And we don't do enough yet to get the services as quickly as necessary to a
lot of our people who are not given the kind of immediate help that they
deserve.

But we need a universal health care system where we manage chronic diseases,
where we get prices down because we can bargain with the drug companies, where
we say to the health insurance companies that they must cover everyone, they
have to do it at an affordable rate.

And for people who might have some financial challenges, I am proposing health
care tax credits that will make health care for everyone affordable.

And I think that that is the right way to go, because if we don't have
everybody in the system, we know what will happen. We will begin to have more
and more people who are uninsured.

The health care companies will continue to cherry pick. The hidden tax that
comes when someone does finally show up at the emergency room will be passed
onto everyone else.

So I am adamantly in favor of universal health care. And that means everybody
is covered. And we will have a system to make it affordable, but it will be
required, as part of shared responsibility, under a new way of making sure
that we don't leave anybody out and provide quality, affordable health care
for everyone.


 Yes, we do.


 That is not true.


 Well, first of all, if you don't start out trying to get universal health care, we know -- and our members of Congress know -- you'll never get there.

If a Democrat doesn't stand for universal health care that includes every
single American, you can see the consequences of what that will mean. I think
it is imperative that we have plans, as both John and I do, that from the very
beginning say, "You know what? Everybody has got to be covered."

There's only three ways of doing it. You can have a single-payer system, you
can require employers, or you can have individual responsibility. My plan
combines employers and individual responsibility, while maintaining Medicare
and Medicaid.

I think that the whole idea of universal health care is such a core Democratic
principle that I am willing to go to the mat for it. I've been there before. I
will be there again. I am not giving in; I am not giving up; and I'm not going
to start out leaving 15 million Americans out of health care.

Secondly, we have seen once again a kind of evolution here. When Senator Obama
ran for the Senate, he was for single-payer and said he was for single-payer
if we could get a Democratic president and Democratic Congress. As time went
on, the last four or so years...

As time went on, the last four or so years, he said he was for single payer in
principle, then he was for universal health care. And then his policy is not,
it is not universal. And this is kind of like the present vote thing, because
the Chicago Tribune, his hometown paper, said that all of those present votes
was taking a pass. It was for political reasons.

Well, when you come up with a universal health care plan and you don't have
any wiggle room left, you know that you're going to draw a lot of political
heat. I am not running for president to put Band-Aids on our problems. I want
to get to universal health care for every single American.

(APPLAUSE)


 I'm looking to bring our troops home, starting within 60 days of my becoming president, and here's why, Joe. I have the greatest admiration for the American military. I serve on the Senate Armed Services Committee. I've been to Iraq three times. I've met with the leaders of the various factions. But there is no military solution, and our young men and women should not remain as the referees of their conflict.

I believe what you're seeing happen is twofold. Of course the surge, the so-
called surge, was able to pacify certain parts of Iraq. If we put enough of
our men and women and equipment in, we're going to be able to have some
tactical military success. But the whole purpose of the surge was to force the
Iraqi government to move quickly towards the kind of resolution that only it
can bring about.

I think what is motivating the Iraqi government is the debate in the political
campaign here. They know they will no longer have a blank check from George
Bush, that I will with draw troops from Iraq. And I believe that will put even
more pressure on the Iraqis to finally make the decisions that they have to
make.

It is not going to be easy. Withdrawing troops is dangerous. That's why I've
been working to make sure that we knew all of the various steps we would have
to take, because it's not just bringing our troops and equipment home. We have
more than 100,000 civilians there, working for the embassy, working for
businesses, working for charities.

We have a lot of Iraqis who sided with us, translators and drivers who put
their lives on the line for American military forces. So this is complicated,
but I'm committed to withdraw our troops and to put the Iraqi government on
notice that their time is running out.


 And they have to make these tough decisions.


 What I have said is that I will move as quickly as possible. I hope to have nearly all out within a year.

We don't know what we're going to inherent from President Bush, but there is a
big problem looming on the horizon that we had better pay attention to, and
that is President Bush is intent upon negotiating a long-term agreement with
Iraq which would have permanent bases, permanent troop presence. And he claims
he does not need to come to the United States Congress to get permission, he
only needs to go to the Iraqi parliament.

That is his stated public position. He was recently in the region, and it is
clear that he intends to push forward on this to try to bind the United States
government and his successor to his failed policy.

I have been strongly opposed to that. We should not be planning permanent
bases and long-term troop commitments.


 Obviously, we've got to rein in...

(APPLAUSE)

... President Bush. And I've proposed legislation and I know that members of
the Congressional Black Caucus are looking at this, as well. We need
legislation in a hurry which says, "No, Mr. Bush, you are the president of the
United States of America. You cannot bind our country without coming to the
United States Congress." This is a treaty...

(APPLAUSE)

... that would have to be presented and approved, and it will not be.


 Well, I respect John's commitment to ending poverty. That's why, 35 years ago, when I graduated from law school, I didn't go to work for a law firm. I went to work for Marian Wright Edelman at the Children's Defense Fund, because ending poverty - particularly ending poverty for children, has been the central core cause of everything that I've been doing for 35 years.

I care deeply about what for me is a mission and it does infuse everything
that I do and why I'm in public office and why before I was in public service,
chairing the Legal Services Corporation so that people got free legal aid when
they would otherwise be put out of the courthouse, standing up time and time
again for health care and education for abused and neglected kids and kids in
the foster care system.

But I think that what we want to do is have a little reality check here,
because how is it best to end poverty? We know we've got to maintain programs
that are there to help people in need, but look at what's happened over the
space of the last seven years. The average African American family has lost
$2,600 in income.

Compare that to the prior eight years, when we had a president who took on the
fights of the '90s and stood up against the Republicans, often at great cost.
And the typical African American family went up $7,600 during the 1990s.

We know we've got to attack poverty by making sure the economy works for
everybody. We have to lift up the idea of good jobs with good benefits, and I
think that we know what we need to do. And if we have a president who is
willing from day one to make it a mission to create shared prosperity again,
that's going to be good for every American. And that's what I'm going to offer
as president. That's what I've been talking about, that's what I've been
working for and that's what I intend to do. And I think we can get results for
every American.


 Well, I'm sure that can be arranged.

(LAUGHTER)


 You know, I want to echo what Barack has said and what each of us has said repeatedly over the last days. You know, this campaign is obviously an incredible opportunity for so many people to become involved, to be part of making history.

You have got a son of the South. You've got an African-American. You have a
woman. What better way to celebrate the legacy of Dr. King than to look at
this stage right here tonight?

(APPLAUSE)


 And, you know, I'm reminded of one of my heroes, Frederick Douglas, who had on the masthead of his newspaper in upstate New York, "The North Star," that right has no sex and truth has no color. And that is really the profound message of Dr. King.

You know, the content of our character, who we are as people. And I think that
my pride in being part of this campaign -- now, look, it's a hard-fought
campaign.

We have differences, but it would be unbecoming of any of us to not share
those differences and to make the points we're making because we are competing
for the most important job in the world at a time when our country has been
disgraced abroad, when we have denied and ignored the problems that are
afflicting people in South Carolina and across America, when we know we will
inherit a huge amount of damage from President Bush upon taking office on
January 20th, 2009, whoever the next president is.

So we are passionate about our cause, our candidacy, what we believe, what we
want to do for America. And it is a great privilege for me to be part of this.
And I think it's important that we stay focused on the future, what we are
going to do together to make our country once again what it should be, to deal
with this myriad of problems that await, because we can bring our country
together and we can set big goals again.

We can start acting like Americans and solve those problems together, and
that's what I want to do.

(APPLAUSE)


 And, you know, Wolf, the...

(APPLAUSE)

... the challenge is for us to address all of these issues. We obviously still
have problems of gender equality. You know, equal pay is not yet equal.

(APPLAUSE)

A woman makes $0.77 on a dollar and women of color make $0.67. So there is a
big agenda waiting for the Democratic Party. And we feel so passionately about
this because we not only are running for office, but we each, in our own way,
have lived it.

We have seen it. We have understood the pain and the injustice that has come
because of race, because of gender. And it's imperative that, as we move
forward with our campaign, we make it very clear that each of us will address
these issues.

You don't hear the Republicans talking about any of this. You don't hear them
talking about the disgrace of a criminal justice system that incarcerates so
many more African-Americans proportionately than whites. You don't hear any
kind of effort to help historically Black Colleges and Universities, something
that I'm committed to doing in order to...

(APPLAUSE)

... make it clear that these are important institutions that have led the way
for so many great leaders to be where they are today.

So we have a specific set of policies and priorities that are really part of
who we are, as well as part of what the Democratic Party stands for.


 Well, I think that he is very much advocating on my behalf, and I appreciate that. He is a tremendous asset. And he feels very strongly about this country and what's at stake and what out future should be. 

I believe that this campaign is not about our spouses. It is about us. It is
about each of us individually. Michelle and Elizabeth are strong and staunch
advocates for their husbands, and I respect that.

But, at the end of the day, voters are going to have to choose among us, and I
think it's fair to say that really the most important decision is who would be
the best president on day one, to deal with all the problems that we know are
waiting for our next president? And the subsidiary question is, who can best
withstand the Republicans and all that we know is coming from them in order to
win in November 2008?

I believe strongly that I can make the best case for that. Obviously, my
colleagues believe just as strongly.

So I think that we need to keep our focus on what's at stake in the election,
what the future holds, what each of us will bring to this campaign and the
presidency, because ultimately it's really not about any of us. It's about the
people of South Carolina. It's about the people of America.

And my voice is their voice. What I want to do is take not only my 35 years of
experience into the White House, but I want to take all those voices of these
extraordinary Americans who come up to me and tell me their stories and give
me hope and inspiration that I can do something for them. Because that's what
it's about for me.

Politics is not a game. It is the most serious of business. We have seen that
over the last seven years. We have seen what a difference it makes when we
have a president who is indifferent to and insensitive about the real-life
struggles of Americans, and I want to be the champion that once again gives
Americans the feeling that they have a president who cares about them and can
produce results for them. And that's what I intend to do.


 But Wolf... 


 ... let me just get in here, because there are a lot of polls showing that I'm beating them higher than anybody else. I don't think that has -- I don't think, frankly, that has much to recommend this far from an election. If John is right and Senator McCain is the Republican nominee, we know that once again we will have a general election about national security. That is what will happen. I believe of any one of us, I am better positioned and better able to take on John McCain or any Republican when it comes to issues about protecting and defending our country and promoting our interest in the world. And if it is indeed the classic Republican campaign, I've been there. I've done that. They've been after me for 16 years, and much to their dismay I am still here. And I intend to be still here when that election comes around and we win in November 2008. (APPLAUSE) 


 Well, you know, John, I will make the commitment to have people in the White House who are honest and trustworthy and put the interests of the United States first. But I think... 


 You know what? I don't know. (LAUGHTER) I don't know, because I'm not in favor of corporate lobbyists, but you keep drawing these artificial distinctions. You take money from people who employ lobbyists, who are married to lobbyists, who are the children of lobbyists. And, you know, at some point this gets really hard to take, because if you are someone like I am, who has withstood the full force of corporate lobbyists, starting with the health insurance companies, and the drug companies, and the oil companies, and everybody that I've taken on for all of these years, you know, I think I'm independent and tough enough to be able to deal with anybody. And that's what I intend to do. (APPLAUSE) 


 Well, John, trial lawyers have given you millions and millions of dollars. So... 


 No, we don't have a real difference. Where we stand is -- where I stand is for public financing. I'm going to do everything I can to get public financing, to get the money out of American politics. But, you know, Barack has a lot of lobbyists who are leading his campaign here in South Carolina. John has had lobbyists who've been working hard for him all of these years. The point is that you've got to say no. You've got to say no. 


 And, yes, I think that we will say no consistently in order to have a positive agenda that is actually going to make a difference. Do you have to stand up to the lobbyists? Yes. But the lobbyists represent the interests that are paying the lobbyists. So to go and focus on the lobbyists, you know, kind of misses the point. 


 Well, there is no doubt that change comes from the extraordinary efforts of the American people. I've seen it in my life. I'm sitting here as a result of that change. 

It is also true -- and Dr. King understood this. He campaigned for political
leaders. He lobbied them. He pushed them. He cajoled. He did everything he
could to get them over the line so that they would be part of the movement
that he gave his life for.

There are people sitting in this audience right now, John Lewis, Jim Clyburn,
they were part of those kinds of efforts, going so far as they could to make
it clear that we had to live up to our values and our ideals.

And then there was a meeting of morality and politics. And the political
leaders finally responded.

The American people should not have to work so hard to get leaders who will
actually help them and recognize we are strongest when we lead by our values.
Dr. King transformed the lives of so many of us, and I intend to do whatever I
can to make his legacy real in the lives of Americans.


 Well, on January 20th, 2009, the next president of the United States will be sworn in on the steps of the Capitol. I, as a Democrat, fervently hope you are looking at that next president. 

(Cheers, applause.)

Either Barack or I will raise our hand and swear to uphold the Constitution of
the United States.

And then, when the celebrations are over, the next president will walk into
the Oval Office. And waiting there will be a stack of problems, problems
inherited from a failed administration -- a war to end in Iraq and a war to
resolve in Afghanistan, an economy that is not working for the vast majority
of Americans, but well for the wealthy and the well-connected; tens of
millions of people either without health insurance at all or with insurance
that doesn't amount to much, because it won't pay what your doctor or your
hospital need -- (applause) -- an energy crisis that we fail to act on at our
peril; global warming, which the United States must lead in trying to contend
with and reverse; and then all of the problems that we know about and the ones
we can't yet predict.

It is imperative that we have a president starting on day one who can begin to
solve our problems, tackle these challenges, and seize the opportunities that
I think await.

I'm very grateful for the extraordinary service of John and Elizabeth Edwards.
And among the many contributions that they have made both by their personal
example of courage and leadership is their reminder that in this land of such
plenty and blessings, there are still 37 million Americans who are living
below the poverty line and many others barely hanging on above.

So what we have to do tonight is to have a discussion about what each of us
believe are the priorities and the goals for America. I think it's imperative
we have a problem solver, that we roll up our sleeves. I'm offering that kind
of approach because I think that Americans are ready once again to know that
there isn't anything we can't do if we put our minds to it. So let's have that
conversation.

(Cheers, applause.)


 Well, I want to start by saying that whatever differences there are among us, between us now -- it's hard to forget -- we keep talking about all those who aren't here -- 


 But the differences between Barack and I pale in comparison to the differences that we have with the Republicans. (Applause.) And I want to say that, first and foremost, because it's really a stark difference. But we do have differences, and let me mention a couple. 

First, on health care, I believe absolutely passionately that we must have
universal health care. (Applause.) It is a moral responsibility and a right
for our country. (Applause continues.) And -- and I have put forth a plan,
similar to what Senator Edwards had before he left the race, that would move
us to universal health care.

Secondly, I think it's imperative that we approach this mortgage crisis with
the seriousness that it is presenting. There are 95,000 homes in foreclosure
in California right now. I want a moratorium on foreclosures for 90 days, so
we can try to work out keeping people in their homes, instead of having them
lose their homes. And I want to freeze interest rates for five years.

I think when it comes to how we approach foreign affairs in particular, I
believe that we've got to be realistic and optimistic.

But we start with realism in the sense that we do have serious threats; we do
have those who are unfortunately and tragically plotting against us, posing
dangers to us and our friends and our allies. And I think that we've got to
have a full diplomatic effort, but I don't think the president should put the
prestige of the presidency on the line in the first year, to have meetings
without preconditions with five of the worst dictators in the world.

So we have differences, both at home and around the world. But again I would
emphasize that what really is important here, because the Republicans were in
California debating yesterday, they are more of the same. Neither of us, just
by looking at us, you can tell, we are not more of the same. We will change
our country. (Laughter, cheers, applause.)


 Yes, it is. 


 Well, let me start by saying that this is a passionate cause of my public service. I started trying to expand health care many years ago, first to children, and to rural areas in Arkansas, and obviously tackled it during my husband's administration. 

And the reason why I have designed a plan that, number one, tells people, "If
you have health insurance and you're happy with it, nothing changes," is
because we want to maximize choice for people.

So if you are satisfied, you're not one of the people who will necessarily at
this time take advantage of what I'm offering. But if you are uninsured or
underinsured, we will open the congressional health plan to you. (Applause.)

And contrary to -- contrary to the description that Barack just gave, we
actually will make it affordable for everyone because my plan lowers costs
aggressively, which is important for us all; improves quality for everyone,
which is essential; and the way it covers all of those who wish to participate
in the congressional plan is that it will provide subsidies. And it will also
cap premiums, something that is really important, becSo when you draw the
distinction that, well, it's not affordable, therefore people will have to be
made to get it, well, the fact is it has been designed to be affordable with
health care tax credits.

And it's also important to recognize that right now there are people who could
afford health care. And they're not all young; they're people who just don't
feel they have to accept that responsibility. There are many states which give
families the option of keeping children up till 25 on their policies, but
their rates of uninsurance are still very high. We cannot get to universal
health care -- which I believe is both a core (Democratic/democratic ?) value
and an imperative for our country -- if we don't do one of three things:
either you can have a single payer system, or -- (cheers, applause) -- which I
know a lot of people favor, but for many reasons is difficult to achieve -- or
you can mandate employers -- well, that's also very controversial -- or you
can do what I am proposing, which is to have shared responsibility.

Now, in Barack's plan, he very clearly says he will mandate that parents get
health insurance for his children. So it's not that he is against mandatory
provisions; it's that he doesn't think it would be politically acceptable to
require that for everyone.

Because we want to make sure that it is affordable for all.

I just disagree with that. I think we as Democrats have to be willing to fight
for universal health care. (Applause.)

And what I've concluded when I was looking at this, because I got the same
kind of advice which was, it's controversial; you'll run into all of this
buzzsaw. And I said, been there, done that. (Laughter.) But if you don't start
by saying you're going to achieve universal health care, you will be nibbled
to death.

And I think it's imperative that as we move forward in this debate and into
the campaign, that we recognize what both John Edwards and I did, that you
have to bite this bullet. You have to say, yes, we are going to try to get
universal health care. What I have designed makes it affordable, provides
premium caps, so it's never above a small percentage of what individuals are
asked to pay.

(Applause.)


 Well, it was an effort to try to begin this conversation, which we're now continuing. It has been a difficult conversation. There have been a lot of efforts. And I'm proud that one of the efforts I was involved in 10 years ago resulted in the children's health insurance program. We now have a million children in California -- (applause) -- who every month get health insurance because of that bipartisan effort. We obviously are running into the presidential veto and not being able to expand it. 

But this issue is so important, and I just want to underscore three really
critical points. First of all, I have said in my plan that we have to regulate
the health insurance industry differently.

We have to say to them that they can no longer deny coverage to anyone, and
they have to cover everyone, including every preexisting condition.
(Applause.)

Secondly, we've got to make it clear to the drug companies that they do
deserve to be part of the solution, because we all benefit from the lifesaving
remedies they come up with. But we pay for it many times over. It is American
taxpayers who pay for the research.

It is American taxpayers who pay for a lot of the clinical studies.

That's why, while we're looking at getting to universal health care, we also
have to give Medicare the right to negotiate with drug companies, to get the
price down -- (applause) -- to begin to rein in those costs across the board.

And -- and finally, it is so important that as Democrats we carry the banner
of universal health care. The health insurance industry is very clever and
extremely well-funded. I know this. I had $300 million of incoming advertising
and attacks during our efforts back in '93 and '94. And one of the reasons why
I've designed the plan that I have put forward now is because I learned a lot
about what people want, what people are willing to accept, and how we get the
political process to work.

And certainly it is important that the president come up with the plan, but
we'll have to persuade Congress to put all of those deliberations on C-SPAN.
Now, I think we might be able to do that, but that's a little heavier lift
than what the president is going to propose because what happens is we have to
have a coalition. I think the plan I have proposed is if you take business,
which pays the costs and wants to get those costs down; take labor, that has
to negotiate over health care instead of wages; take doctors, nurses,
hospitals, who want to get back into the business of taking care of people
instead of working for insurance companies; I think we will have a coalition
that can withstand the health insurance and the drug companies, and that's
what I intend to do. (Applause.)


 Well, let me say that the way I would pay for this is to take the Bush tax cuts that are set to expire on people making more than $250,000 a year -- that would raise about $55 billion, and I would put that into these subsides for the health care tax credits so that people would be able to afford the health care that we are offering. 

The other 55 billion (dollars) would come from the modernization and the
efficiencies that I believe we can obtain. We spend more money than anybody in
the world on health care, and it -- there is no end in sight. Yet we don't get
the best results, we don't have the longest lifespan, we don't have the best
infant mortality rates. We could do so much better.

And here are some of the ideas that I have put on the table.

Number one, the Bush administration has given enormous tax giveaways to HMOs
and drug companies, under the Medicare prescription Part D program, under the
HMO program in Medicare. I would rein those in.

They are not being earned. They do not produce the results that are supposedly
being touted by the Bush administration. (Applause.)

I would also move toward electronic medical records -- something that I've
worked on for nearly five years, on a bipartisan basis, started with Newt
Gingrich and Bill Frist. We passed my legislation through the Senate a year
ago. Didn't get it through the Republican House. Now we're going to try again
in the Democratic Congress.

If we had electronic medical records, according to the RAND Corporation,
hardly a bastion of liberal thinking -- (laughter) -- they have said we would
save $77 billion a year. That money can be put into prevention. It could be
put into chronic care management. It can be put into making sure that our
health care system has enough access so that if you are in rural community
somewhere in California or somewhere in Tennessee or somewhere in Georgia,
you'll have access to health care. If you're in an inner-city area, and you
see your hospital, like the Drew Medical Center, closed on you, then you're
going to have a place once again where you can get health care in the
immediate area.

So we can begin to be more effective and more sensible about how we cover
everybody, and use the money from the top-end tax cuts and from modernizing
the system. (Applause.)


 Yeah, that's right. 


 Absolutely, absolutely. 


 (Laughs.) 


 But Wolf, it's just really important to underscore here that we will go back to the tax rates we had before George Bush became president, and my memory is people did really well during that time period. 


 And they will keep doing really well. (Cheers, applause.) 


 Well, let me start with the original question from Kim (sp), because I think it deserves an answer. I believe that in many parts of our country, because of employers who exploit undocumented workers and drive down wages, there are job losses. And I think we should be honest about that. (Applause.) There are people who have been pushed out of jobs in factories and meat processing plants and all kinds of settings. And I meet them. You know, I was in Atlanta last night, and an African-American man said to me, "I used to have a lot of construction jobs, and now it just seems like the only people who get them anymore are people who are here without documentation." 

So I -- I know that what we have to do is to bring our country together to
have a comprehensive immigration reform solution. That is the answer.
(Applause.)

And it is important that we make clear to Kim and people who are worried about
this that that is actually in the best interests of those who are concerned
about losing their jobs or already have, because if we can tighten our
borders, if we can crack down on employers who exploit workers -- both those
who are undocumented and those who are here as citizens or legal -- if we can
do more to help local communities cope with the costs that they often have to
contend with, if we do more to help our friends to the south create more jobs
for their own people, and if we take what we know to be the realities that we
confront -- 12 (million) to 14 million people here -- what will we do with
them? Well, I hear the voices from the other side of the aisle, I hear the
voices on TV and radio, and they are living in some other universe, talking
about deporting people, rounding them up. I don't agree with that, and I don't
think it's practical.

And therefore, what we've got to do is to say come out of the shadows, we will
register everyone. We will check, because if you have committed a crime in
this country or the country you came from, then you will not be able to stay;
you will have to be deported. But for the vast majority of people who are
here, we will give you a path to legalization if you meet the following
conditions.

Pay a fine because you entered illegally. Be willing to pay back taxes over
time. Try to learn English, and we have to help you do that, because we've cut
back on so many of those services. And then you wait in line.

That not only is, I think, the best way to approach the problem of our 12
(million) to 14 million who are here, but that also says to Kim, Kim, this is
the best answer as well. Because once we have those conditions met, and people
agree, then they will not be in a labor market that undercuts anybody else's
wages.


 And therefore it's imperative we approach it this way. Only after people have agreed to these conditions, Doyle, and that they have been willing to say yes, they will meet those conditions, do I think we ought to talk about privileges like driver's licenses. Because otherwise I think you will further undermine the labor market for people like the ones Kim is referring to. We need to solve this problem, not exacerbate it, and that's what I intend to do as president. (Applause.) 


 Well, Wolf -- 


 Well, actually, I cosponsored comprehensive immigration reform in 2004, before Barack came to the Senate. (Cheers, applause.) So I have been on record on behalf of this for quite some time. 

And you know, representing New York, the homeland with the Statue of Liberty
bringing all of our immigrants to our shores has been not only an
extraordinary privilege, but given me the opportunity to speak out on these
issues. When the House of Representatives passed the most mean-spirited
provision that said if you were to give any help whatsoever to someone here
illegally, you would commit a crime, I stood up and said that would have
criminalized the Good Samaritan and Jesus Christ himself. (Applause.)

I have been on record on this, against this kind of demagoguery, this mean-
spiritedness.

And you know, it is something that I take very personally, because I have not
only worked on behalf of immigrants, I have been working to make conditions
better for many years. I was so honored to get the farm workers' endorsement
last week -- (applause) -- because for so many years I have stood with farm
workers, who do some of the hardest work there is anywhere in our country.

So we may be looking at the immigration reform issue as a political issue. And
it certainly has been turned into one by those who I think are undermining the
values of America.

It is a -- a -- a serious question. We have to fix this broken system. But
let's do it in a practical, realistic approach. Let's bring people together.
And I think as president I can. You know, I've been going to town halls all
over America, and I see the people out there, thousands of them, who come to
hear me, and you know, they're nervous about immigration, and for the reasons
that the economy isn't working for people.

The average American family has lost a thousand dollars in income. They're
looking for some explanation as to why this is happening. And they often ask
exactly the kind of question that Kim asked, with a real edge or a real, you
know, amount of anxiety in their voice. And then I ask them, well, what would
you do?

If you want to round up and deport people, how many tens of thousands of
federal law enforcement officials would that take? And how much authority
would they have to be given to knock on every door of every business and every
home? I don't think Americans would stand for that, so we have to get
realistic and practical about this. (Applause.)


 Well, we disagree on this. 

I do not think that it is either appropriate to give a driver's license to
someone who's here undocumented, putting them frankly at risk, because that is
clear evidence that they are not here legally. And I believe it is a diversion
from what should be the focus at creating a political coalition with the
courage to stand up and change the immigration system. (Applause.)


 Well -- 


 Well, I just have to correct the record for one second, because obviously we do agree about the need to have comprehensive immigration reform. And if I recall, about a week after I said that I would try to support my governor, although I didn't agree with it personally, you were asked the same question and could not answer it. So this is a difficult issue. (Applause.) And both of us have to recognize that it is not something that we easily come to, because we share a lot of the same values. 


 We want to be fair to people. We want to respect the dignity of every human being, every person who is here. But we are trying to work our way through to get to where we need to be, and that is to have a united Democratic Party with fair-minded Republicans who will join us to fix this broken immigration system. (Applause.) 


 Well, I would go back 35 years, Wolf, because when I first got out of law school, I didn't want to go to work for a law firm. I wanted to go to work for the Children's Defense Fund and to work on behalf of -- (applause) -- abused and neglected kids and kids with disabilities and kids who didn't have education or health care. 

And I really spent a great deal of my early adulthood, you know, bringing
people together to help solve the problems of those who were without a voice
and were certainly powerless. I was honored to be appointed by President
Carter to the Legal Services Corporation, which I chaired, and we grew that
corporation from 100 million to 300 million. It is the primary vehicle by
which people are given access to our courts when they have civil problems that
need to be taken care of.

You know, I've run projects that provided aid for prisoners in prisons. I
helped to reform the education system in Arkansas and expand rural health
care. And I've had a lot of varied experiences both in the private sector as
well as the public and the not-for- profit sector.

And certainly during those eight years that I was privileged to be in the
White House, I had a great deal of responsibility that was given to me to not
only work on domestic issues like health care, and when we weren't successful
on universal health care, I just turned around and said, "Well, we're going to
get the Children's Health Insurance Program." And I'm so proud we do, because
now 6 million children around the country every month get health care.

And I took on the drug companies to make sure that they would test drugs to
see if they were safe and effective for our kids, and began to change the
adoption and foster care system. Here in California, because of the Adoption
and Safe Families Act, we have three times more children being adopted out of
foster care.

(Applause.)

And certainly the work that I was able to do around the world, going to more
than 82 countries, negotiating with governments like Macedonia to open their
border again, to let Kosovar refugees in, speaking on behalf of women's rights
as human rights in Beijing -- (cheers, applause) -- to send a message across
the world that this is critical to who we are as Americans, and to go to the
Senate and to begin to work across the party lines with people who honestly
never thought they would work with me -- but believe public service is a
trust, and I get up every day, try to make change in people's lives. And today
we have 20,000 National Guard and Reserve members in California who have
access to health care because I teamed up with Senator Lindsey Graham of South
Carolina to get that done --


 \-- really positive change in people's lives, in real ways that I am very proud of. (Applause.) 


 Well, I would, with all due respect, say that the United States government is much more than a business. (Applause.) It is a trust. It is the most complicated organization but it is not out to make a profit. It is out to help the American people. It is about to stand up for our values and to do what we should, at home and around the world, to keep faith with who we are as a country. 

And with all due respect, we have a president who basically ran as the CEO/MBA
president. Look what we got. I am not too happy about the results. (Cheers,
applause.)


 (Laughs.) 


 (Laughs.) 


 Well, I have the greatest respect for Senator Kennedy and the Kennedy family, and I'm proud to have three of Senator Robert Kennedy's children -- Robert and Kathleen and Kerry -- supporting me. But what I think is -- (cheers, applause) -- what I think is exciting is that the way we are looking at the Democratic field, now down to the two of us, is we're going to get big change. We're going to have change. I think having the first woman president would be a huge change for America and the world. (Cheers, applause.) 

But of course, despite the enthusiasm of our supporters or our endorsers --
and we're both proud of everyone who has come to be part of our campaign --
this is about the two of us.

You have to, as voters, determine who you think can be the best president, to
tackle all those problems on day one waiting in the Oval Office, who can be
the best nominee for the Democratic Party, to be able to withstand whatever
they decide to do on the other side of the aisle and come out victorious.

But ultimately, this is really about the American people. It's about your
lives. It's about your jobs, your health care, whether you can afford to send
your children to college, whether you'll be able to withstand the pressure of
the rising interest rates on a home foreclosure that might come your way, and
whether we're going to once again be proud of our country and our leadership
and our moral authority in the world.

And so I think that as we look at these upcoming contests, 22 of them, now, on
Tuesday, really every voter should be looking and examining what they want out
of the next president. What are the criteria that you have for determining who
you will vote for, what you think our country needs, what you and your family
are really looking for? And then you evaluate the two of us, because no one
else will be on the ballot. This is a very exciting and humbling experience, I
think I can say for both of us.


 Neither of us would have ever predicted, you know, not very long ago, we would be sitting here. 

And it is a great tribute to the Democratic Party and to America, but now we
have to decide who would be the best president. (Cheers, applause.)


 Well, as I have often said, I regret deeply that there is a Bush in the White House at this time. (Laughter.) But I think that what's great about our political system is that we are all judged on our own merits. You know, we come forward to the American public, and it's the most grueling political process one can imagine. We start from the same place. Nobody has an advantage, no matter who you are or where you came from. You have to raise the money. You have to make the case for yourself. 

And I want to be judged on my own merits. I don't want to be advantaged or
disadvantaged. I'm very proud of my husband's administration. I think that
there were a lot of good things that happened, and those good things really
changed people's lives. The trajectory of change during those eight years went
from deficits and debt to a balanced budget and a surplus, all those 22
million new jobs -- (applause) -- and the hopefulness that people brought with
them.

And, you know, it did take a Clinton to clean after the first Bush, and I
think it might take another one to clean up after the second Bush. (Laughter,
cheers, applause.)


 Well, because, Doyle, I have been very clear in saying that I will begin to withdraw troops in 60 days. I believe that it will take me one to two brigades a month, depending upon how many troops we have there, and that nearly all of them should be out within a year. 

It is imperative, though, that we actually plan and execute this right. And
you may remember last spring I got into quite a back-and- forth with the
Pentagon because I was concerned they were not planning for withdrawal,
because that was contrary to their strategy or their stated position. And I
began to press them to let us know, and they were very resistant and gave only
cursory information to us.

So I've said that I will ask the Joint Chiefs and the secretary of Defense and
my security advisers the very first day I'm president to begin to draw up such
a plan so that we can withdraw.

But I just want to be very clear with people that it's not only bringing our
young men and women and our equipment out -- which is dangerous; they've got
to go down those same roads where they have been subjected to bombing and so
much loss of life and injury. We have to think about what we're going to do
with the more than 100,000 American civilians who are there, working for the
embassy, working for businesses, working for charities.

And I also believe we've got to figure out what to do with the Iraqis who
sided with us. You know, a lot of the drivers and translators saved so many of
our young men and women's lives, and I don't think we can walk out on them
without having some plan as to how to take care of those who are targeted.

At the same time, we've got to tell the Iraqi government there is no -- there
is no more time. They're out of time. They've got to make the tough decisions
they have avoided making. They've got to take responsibility for their own
country. (Applause.)

And, you know, I think both Barack and I have tried in these debates, and
sometimes been pushed by some of our opponents, to be as responsible as we can
be, because we know that this president, based on what he said in the State of
the Union, intends to leave at least 130,000, if not more, troops in Iraq as
he exits. It's the most irresponsible abdication of what should be a
presidential commitment to end what he started.

So we will inherit it. And therefore, I will do everything I can to get as
many of our troops out as quickly as possible, taking into account all of
these contingencies that we're going to have to contend with once we're in
charge and once we can get into the Pentagon to figure out what's really there
and what's going on.


 I certainly -- I certainly hope it will be, and I said I hope to have nearly all of them out within a year. 


 And -- and of course, you know -- 


 Really? (Laughter.) 


 We're having -- we're having such a good time. 


 We are, we are. We're having a wonderful time. 


 And I am so -- I am so proud to have the support of leaders like Congresswoman Maxine Waters, who's here with us tonight -- (cheers, applause) -- who was one of the -- who was one of the original conveners of the Out of Iraq Caucus because it is imperative that as we move forward with what will be a very difficult process -- there are no good options here. 

We have to untangle ourselves and navigate through some very treacherous
terrain.

And as we do so, it is absolutely clear to me that we have to send several
messages at once. Yes, we are withdrawing, and I personally believe that is
the best message to send to the Iraqis. That they need to know that they have
to get serious, because so far, they have been under the illusion that the
Bush administration and the Republicans, who have more of the same, will be
there indefinitely.

And I also think it's important to send that message to the region, because I
think that Iran, Syria, the other countries in the neighborhood are going to
find themselves in a very difficult position as we withdraw. You know, be
careful what you wish for. They will be dragged into what is sectarian
divisiveness with many different factions among the three main groups.
Therefore, we need to start diplomatic efforts immediately getting the
Iranians and Syrians and others to the table. It's in their interest, it's in
our interest, and it certainly is in the Iraqis' interest.


 The other point that I want to underscore, though, is that -- I asked Barack a few debates ago -- we've had so many of them -- to join with me on legislation, which he has agreed to do, that's very important, to prevent President Bush from committing our country to an ongoing presence in Iraq. (Applause.) 

That is something he is trying to push, and we are pushing legislation to
prevent him from doing that. He has taken the view that I find absolutely
indefensible: that he doesn't have to bring any such agreement about permanent
bases, about ongoing occupation, and if Senator McCain is the nominee, 100
years as stretching forward, he doesn't have to bring that to the United
States Congress; he only has to get the approval of the Iraqi parliament.

Well, we are saying absolutely no. And we're going to do everything we can to
prevent him from binding any of us going into the future in a way that will
undermine America's interests. (Applause.) So that's a critical --


 Well, Howard, that's an important question, and the reason is because although I believe strongly that we needed to put inspectors in -- that was the underlying reason why I at least voted to give President Bush the authority -- put those inspectors in, let them do their work, figure out what is there and what isn't there. 

And I have the greatest respect for my friend and colleague, Senator Levin.
He's my chairman on the Senate Armed Services Committee.

The way that amendment was drafted suggested that the United States would
subordinate whatever our judgment might be going forward to the United Nations
Security Council. I don't think that was a good precedent. Therefore I voted
against it. I did vote with Senator Byrd to limit the authority that was being
given to President Bush to one year, and that also was not approved.

You know, I've said many times, if I had known then what I know now, I never
would have given President Bush the authority. It was a sincere vote, based on
my assessment at the time and what I believed he would do with the authority
he was given. He abused that authority. He misused that authority. I warned,
at the time, it was not authority for a pre-emptive war. Nevertheless he went
ahead and waged one, which has led to the position we find ourselves in today.

But I think now we have to look at how we go forward. There will be a great
debate between us and the Republicans, because the Republicans are still
committed to George Bush's policy. And some are more committed than others,
with Senator McCain's recent comments. He's now accusing me of surrendering,
because I believe we should withdraw starting within 60 days of my becoming
president.

Well, that is a debate I welcome because I think the Democrats have a much
better grasp of the reality of the situation that we are confronting. And we
have to continue to press that case. It will be important, however, that our
nominee be able to present both a reasoned argument against continuing our
presence in Iraq, and the necessary credentials and gravitas for commander in
chief. That has to cross that threshold in the mind of every American voter.
The Republicans will try to put either one of us into the same box -- that if
we oppose this president's Iraq policy, somehow we cannot fully represent the
interests of the United States, be commander in chief. I reject that out of
hand, and I actually welcome that debate with whomever they nominate.
(Applause.)


 Well, Wolf, I think that if you look at what was going on at the time, and certainly I did an enormous amount of investigation and due diligence to try to determine what, if any, threat could flow from the history of Saddam Hussein being both an owner of and a seeker of weapons of mass destruction. 

The idea of putting inspectors back in, that -- that was a credible idea. I
believe in coercive diplomacy. I think that you try to figure out how to move
bad actors in a direction that you'd prefer in order to avoid more dire
consequences. And what -- if you took it on the face of it and if you took it
on the basis of what we hope would happen with the inspectors going in, that
in and of itself was a policy that we've used before. We have used the threat
of force to try to make somebody try to change their behavior.

I think what no one could have fully appreciated is how obsessed this
president was with this particular mission. And unfortunately, I and others
who warned at the time, who said let the inspectors finish their work, you
know, do not wage a preemptive war, use diplomacy, were just talking to a
brick wall.

But you know, it's clear that if I had been president, we would never have
diverted our attention from Afghanistan. When I went to Afghanistan the first
time and was met by a young soldier from New York in the 10th Mountain
Division who told me that I was being welcomed to the forgotten front lines in
the war against terror, that just -- you know, just struck me so forcefully --
that we have so many -- (off mike) -- and it will take everyone.

It'll take a tremendous amount of -- of effort.

But the one thing I am convinced of is that if we go into our campaign against
the Republicans with the idea that we are as strong as they are and we are
better than they are on national security, that we can put together a -- an
effective strategy to go after the terrorists -- because that is real, that is
something that we cannot ignore, at our peril -- then we will be able to join
the issues of the future.

And I think that's what Americans are focused on. What are we going to do
going forward? Because day after day, what I spend my time working on is
trying to help pick up the pieces for families and for injured soldiers, you
know, trying to make sure that they get the help that they need, trying to
give the resources that are required.

We had to fight to get body armor. You know, George Bush sent people to war
without body armor.


 So we need a president who will be sensitive to the implications of the use of force and understand that force should be a last resort, not a first resort. 


 No, that's not what you hear me say. (Cheers, applause.) Good try, Wolf. Good try. (Booing, shouting.) 

You know --


 Well, let me -- you asked the question to me. I -- you know, I deserve to answer. 


 No, you know, I -- I think that -- you know, that -- that is a good try, Wolf. (Laughter.) 

The -- you know, the -- the point is that I certainly respect Senator Obama
making his speech in 2002 against the war. And then, when he came to the
Senate, we've had the same policy because we were both confronting the same
reality of trying to deal with the consequences of George Bush's action.

I believe that it is abundantly clear that the case that was outlined on
behalf of going to the resolution -- not going to war, but going to the
resolution -- was a credible case. I was told personally by the White House
that they would use the resolution to put the inspectors in. I worked with
Senator Levin to make sure we gave them all the intelligence so that we would
know what's there.

Some people now think that this was a very clear, open-and-shut case. We
bombed them for days in 1998 because Saddam Hussein threw out inspectors. We
had evidence that they had a lot of bad stuff for a very long time, which we
discovered after the first Gulf War.

Knowing that he was a megalomaniac, knowing he would not want to compete for
attention with Osama bin Laden, there were legitimate concerns about what he
might do.

So I think I made a reasoned judgment.

Unfortunately the person who actually got to execute the policy did not.
(Applause.)


 He's a spouse too. (Laughter.) 


 (Laughs.) Well, one thing I think is fair to say. Both Barack and I have very passionate spouses who promote and defend us at every turn. 

But the fact is that I'm running for president, and this is my campaign.
(Applause.) And I have made it very clear that I want the campaign to stay
focused on the issues that I'm concerned about, the kind of future that I want
for our country, the work that I have done for all of these years. And that is
what the campaign is about.

And, of course, I'm thrilled to have my husband and my daughter, who's here
tonight, you know, representing me and traveling around the country speaking
with people. But at the end of the day, it is my name that's on the ballot.
And it will be my responsibility as president and commander in chief, after
consulting broadly with a lot of people who have something to contribute to
difficult decisions, I will have to make the call. And I am fully prepared to
do that.

And I know that as we go forward in this campaign, it's a choice between the
two of us. And we're proud of our spouses. We're proud of our families. We're
proud of everybody supporting us. But at the end of the day, it's a lonely job
in the White House. And it is the president of the United States who has to
make the decisions, and that is what I'm asking to be entrusted to do.
(Applause.)


 (Laughs.) 


 (Laughs.) 


 (Chuckles.) 


 Well, I have to agree with everything Barack just said. (Laughter, applause.) 


 This has been an extraordinary campaign, and I think both of us have been overwhelmed by the response that we have engendered, the kind of enthusiasm and intensity that people feel about each of us. And -- so clearly, we are both dedicated to doing the best we can to win the nomination. 

But there is no doubt we will have a unified Democratic party.

We will go into the November election -- (cheers, applause) -- prepared to
win. And I want to just add that, you know, on Monday night, I'm going to have
a national town hall, an interactive town hall, that'll be carried on the
Hallmark Channel and on my website, hillaryclinton.com, because I know you had
tens of thousands of questions --


 And you -- yeah. I want your folks to participate, too. 


 And it's going to be across the country. Monday night at 9:00 Eastern, 6:00 here on the West Coast. And so -- 


 \-- for all those who didn't get their questions asked or answered, please log on, turn on, and continue to be part of this really, really exciting election for both of us. 


 Thank you. 


 (From videotape.) You know, no matter what happens in this contest -- and I am honored, I am honored to be here with Barack Obama. I am absolutely honored. (Cheers, applause.) 

(From videotape.) So shame on you, Barack Obama. It is time you ran a campaign
consistent with your messages in public. That's what I expect from you. Meet
me in Ohio. Let's have a debate about your tactics and your -- (cheers,
applause).


 Well, this is a contested campaign. And as I have said many times, I have a great deal of respect for Senator Obama, but we have differences. And in the last several days, some of those differences in tactics and the choices that Senator Obama's campaign has made regarding flyers and mailers and other information that has been put out about my health care plan and my position on NAFTA have been very disturbing to me. 

And therefore, I think it's important that you stand up for yourself and you
point out these differences so that voters can have the information they need
to make a decision.

You know, for example, it's been unfortunate that Senator Obama has
consistently said that I would force people to have health care whether they
could afford it or not. You know, health care reform and achieving universal
health care is a passion of mine. It is something I believe in with all my
heart. And every day that I'm campaigning, and certainly here throughout Ohio,
I've met so many families -- happened again this morning in Lorain -- who are
just devastated because they don't get the health care they deserve to have.
And unfortunately it's a debate we should have that is accurate and is based
in facts about my plan and Senator Obama's plan, because my plan will cover
everyone and it will be affordable. And on many occasions, independent experts
have concluded exactly that.

And Senator Obama's plan does not cover everyone. It would leave, give or
take, 15 million people out. So we should have a good debate that uses
accurate information, not false, misleading, and discredited information,
especially on something as important as whether or not we will achieve
quality, affordable health care for everyone. That's my goal. That's what I'm
fighting for, and I'm going to stand up for that.


 Well, so far as I know, it did not. And I certainly know nothing about it and have made clear that that's not the kind of behavior that I condone or expect from the people working in my campaign. But we have no evidence where it came from. 

So I think that it's clear what I would do if it were someone in my campaign,
as I have in the past: asking people to leave my campaign if they do things
that I disagree with.


 But I have to -- I have to respond to that because this is not just any issue, and certainly we've had a vigorous back and forth on both sides of our campaign. But this is an issue that goes to the heart of whether or not this country will finally do what is right, and that is to provide quality affordable health care to every single person. 

Senator Obama has a mandate in his plan. It's a mandate on parents to provide
health insurance for their children. That's about 150 million people who would
be required to do that. The difference between Senator Obama and myself is
that I know, from the work I've done on health care for many years, that if
everyone's not in the system we will continue to let the insurance companies
do what's called cherry picking -- pick those who get insurance and leave
others out.

We will continue to have a hidden tax, so that when someone goes to the
emergency room without insurance -- 15 million or however many -- that amount
of money that will be used to take care of that person will be then spread
among all the rest of us.

And most importantly, you know, the kind of attack on my health care plan,
which the University of Pennsylvania and others have said is misleading --
that attack goes right to the heart of whether or not we will be able to
achieve universal health care. That's a core Democratic Party value. It's
something that ever since Harry Truman we have stood for.

And what I find regrettable is that in Senator Obama's mailing that he has
sent out across Ohio, it is almost as though the health insurance companies
and the Republicans wrote it, because in my plan there is enough money,
according to the independent experts who've evaluated it, to provide the kind
of subsidies so that everyone would be able to afford it. It is not the same
as a single state trying to do this, because the federal government has many
more resources at its disposal.


 So I think it's imperative that we stand as Democrats for universal health care. I've staked out a claim for that. Senator Edwards did. Others have. But Senator Obama has not. 


 You know, Brian -- Brian, wait a minute. I've got -- this is too important. 

You know, Senator Obama has a mandate. He would enforce the mandate by
requiring parents to buy insurance for their children.


 That is the case. 

If you have a mandate, it has to be enforceable. So there's no difference
here.


 It's just that I know that parents who get sick have terrible consequences for their children. So you can insure the children, and then you've got the bread-winner who can't afford health insurance or doesn't have it for him or herself. 

And in fact, it would be as though Franklin Roosevelt said let's make Social
Security voluntary -- that's -- you know, that's -- let's let everybody get in
it if they can afford it -- or if President Johnson said let's make Medicare
voluntary.


 What we have said is that at the point of employment, at the point of contact with various government agencies, we would have people signed up. It's like when you get a 401(k), it's your employer. The employer automatically enrolls you. You would be enrolled. 

And under my plan, it is affordable because, number one, we have enough money
in our plan. A comparison of the plans like the ones we're proposing found
that actually I would cover nearly everybody at a much lower cost than Senator
Obama's plan because we would not only provide these health care tax credits,
but I would limit the amount of money that anyone ever has to pay for a
premium to a low percentage of your income. So it will be affordable.

Now, if you want to say that we shouldn't try to get everyone into health
insurance, that's a big difference, because I believe if we don't have
universal health care, we will never provide prevention.

I have the most aggressive measures to reduce costs and improve quality. And
time and time again, people who have compared our two approaches have
concluded that.


 So let's -- let's have a debate about the facts. 


 About 20 percent of -- about 20 percent of the people who are uninsured have the means to buy insurance. They're often young people -- 


 \-- who think they're immortal -- 


 \-- except when the illness or the accident strikes. And what Senator Obama has said, that then, once you get to the hospital, you'll be forced to buy insurance, I don't think that's a good idea. We ought to plan for it -- 


 \-- and we ought to make sure we cover everyone. 

That is the only way to get to universal health care coverage.


 That is what I've worked for for 15 years -- 


 \-- and I believe that we can achieve it. But if we don't even have a plan to get there, and we start out by leaving people, you'll never ever control costs, improve quality, and cover everyone. 


 Well, there's hardly anything be more important? I think it would be good to talk about health care and how we're we going get to universal health care. 


 Well, can I just point out that in the last several debates, I seem to get the first question all the time. And I don't mind. I -- you know, I'll be happy to field them, but I do find it curious, and if anybody saw "Saturday Night Live," you know, maybe we should ask Barack if he's comfortable and needs another pillow. (Laughter, boos.) I just find it kind of curious that I keep getting the first question on all of these issues. But I'm happy to answer it. 

You know, I have been a critic of NAFTA from the very beginning. I didn't have
a public position on it, because I was part of the administration, but when I
started running for the Senate, I have been a critic. I've said it was flawed.
I said that it worked in some parts of our country, and I've seen the results
in Texas. I was in Laredo in the last couple of days. It's the largest inland
port in America now. So clearly, some parts of our country have been
benefited.

But what I have seen, where I represent up-state New York, I've seen the
factories closed and moved. I've talked to so many people whose children have
left because they don't have a good shot. I've had to negotiate to try to keep
factories open, sometimes successfully, sometimes not, because the companies
got tax benefits to actually move to another country.

So what I have said is that we need to have a plan to fix NAFTA. I would
immediately have a trade timeout, and I would take that time to try to fix
NAFTA by making it clear that we'll have core labor and environmental
standards in the agreement.

We will do everything we can to make it enforceable, which it is not now. We
will stop the kind of constant sniping at our protections for our workers that
can come from foreign companies because they have the authority to try to sue
to overturn what we do to keep our workers safe.

This is rightly a big issue in Ohio. And I have laid out my criticism, but in
addition my plan, for actually fixing NAFTA. Again, I have received a lot of
incoming criticism from Senator Obama. And the Cleveland Plain Dealer examined
Senator Obama's attacks on me regarding NAFTA and said they were erroneous. So
I would hope that, again, we can get to a debate about what the real issues
are and where we stand because we do need to fix NAFTA. It is not working. It
was, unfortunately, heavily disadvantaging many of our industries,
particularly manufacturing. I have a record of standing up for that, of
chairing the Manufacturing Caucus in the Senate, and I will take a tough
position on these trade agreements.


 I have said that I will renegotiate NAFTA, so obviously, you'd have to say to Canada and Mexico that that's exactly what we're going to do. But you know, in fairness -- 


 Yes, I am serious. 


 No, I will say we will opt out of NAFTA unless we renegotiate it, and we renegotiate on terms that are favorable to all of America. 

But let's be fair here, Tim. There are lots of parts of New York that have
benefitted, just like there are lots of parts of Texas that have benefitted.
The problem is in places like upstate New York, places like Youngstown,
Toledo, and others throughout Ohio that have not benefitted. And if you look
at what I have been saying, it has been consistent.

You know, Senator Obama told the farmers of Illinois a couple of years ago
that he wanted more trade agreements. I -- right now --


 Well, but that -- but that is important -- 


 Well, I -- I -- you don't have all the record because you can go back and look at what I've said consistently. And I haven't just said things; I have actually voted to toughen trade agreements, to try to put more teeth into our enforcement mechanisms. And I will continue to do so. 

But you know, Tim, when you look at what the Cleveland Plain Dealer said when
they examined the kind of criticism that Senator Obama was making of me --
it's not me saying it -- they said it was erroneous. And it was erroneous
because it didn't look at the entire picture, both at what I've said and what
I've done.

But let's talk about what we're going to do. It is not enough just to
criticize NAFTA, which I have, and for some years now. I have put forward a
very specific plan about what I would do, and it does include telling Canada
and Mexico that we will opt out unless we renegotiate the core labor and
environmental standards -- not side agreements, but core agreements; that we
will enhance the enforcement mechanism; and that we will have a very clear
view of how we're going to review NAFTA going forward to make sure it works,
and we're going to take out the ability of foreign companies to sue us because
of what we do to protect our workers.

I would also say that you can go back and look at from the very beginning -- I
think David Gergen was on TV today remembering that I was very skeptical about
it.

It has worked in some parts of America. It has not worked in Ohio. It has not
worked in upstate New York. And since I've been in the Senate -- neither of us
voted on this. That wasn't something either of us got to cast an independent
vote on. Since I have been in the Senate, I have worked to try to ameliorate
the impact of these trade agreements.


 I'm confident that as president, when I say we will opt out unless we renegotiate, we will be able to renegotiate. 


 No, Tim, because what happened in 2000 is that I thought Al Gore was going to be president. And when I made the pledge I was counting on having a Democratic White House, a Democratic president who shared my values about what we needed to do to make the economy work for everyone and to create shared prosperity. 

And as you know, despite the difficulties of the Bush administration and a
Republican Congress for six years of my first term I have worked very hard to
create jobs but obviously as president I will have a lot more tools at my
disposal. And the reason why we can create at least 5 million new jobs -- I
mean, this is not a big leap. Twenty-two point seven million new jobs were
created during the eight years of the Clinton administration under my husband.
We can create at least 5 million new jobs.

I'm not just talking about it. I helped to pass legislation to begin a
training program for green collar jobs. I want to see people throughout Ohio
being trained to do the work that will put solar panels on roofs, install wind
turbines, do geothermal, take advantage of biofuels, and I know that if we had
put $5 billion into the stimulus package to really invest in the training and
the tax incentives that would have created those jobs as the Democrats wanted,
as I originally proposed, we would be on the way to creating those.

You know, take a country like Germany. They made a big bet on solar power.
They have a smaller economy and population than ours.

They've created several hundred thousand new jobs, and these are jobs that
can't be outsourced. These are jobs that have to be done in Youngstown, in
Dayton, in Cincinnati. These are jobs that we can create here with the right
combination of tax incentives, training, and a commitment to following
through. So I do think that at least 5 million jobs are fully capable of being
produced within the next 10 years.


 Well, I have put forth my extensive experience in foreign policy, you know, helping to support the peace process in Northern Ireland, negotiating to open borders so that refugees fleeing ethnic cleansing would be safe, going to Beijing and standing up for women's rights as human rights and so much else. And every time the question about qualifications and credentials for commander in chief are raised, Senator Obama rightly points to the speech he gave in 2002. He's to be commended for having given the speech. Many people gave speeches against the war then, and the fair comparison is he didn't have responsibility, he didn't have to vote; by 2004 he was saying that he basically agreed with the way George Bush was conducting the war. And when he came to the Senate, he and I have voted exactly the same. We have voted for the money to fund the war until relatively recently. So the fair comparison was when we both had responsibility, when it wasn't just a speech but it was actually action, where is the difference? Where is the comparison that would in some way give a real credibility to the speech that he gave against the war? 

And on a number of other issues, I just believe that, you know, as Senator
Obama said, yes, last summer he basically threatened to bomb Pakistan, which I
don't think was a particularly wise position to take. I have long advocated a
much tougher approach to Musharraf and to Pakistan, and have pushed the White
House to do that.

And I disagree with his continuing to say that he would meet with some of the
worst dictators in the world without preconditions and without the real, you
know, understanding of what we would get from it.

So I think you've got to look at, you know, what I have done over a number of
years, traveling on behalf of our country to more than 80 countries, meeting
and working out a lot of different issues that are important to our national
security and our foreign policy and our values, serving on the Senate Armed
Services Committee for now five years. And I think that, you know, standing on
that stage with Senator McCain, if he is, as appears to be, the nominee, I
will have a much better case to make on a range of the issues that really
America must confront going forward, and will be able to hold my own and make
the case for a change in policy that will be better for our country.


 Well, I guess that -- 


 Absolutely. And I believe that there is no military solution that the Americans who have been valiant in doing everything they were asked to do can really achieve in the absence of full cooperation from the Iraqi government. And -- 


 And they need to take responsibility for themselves. And -- 


 You know, Tim, you ask a lot of hypotheticals. And I believe that what's -- 


 No -- well, it isn't reality. You're -- you're -- you're making lots of different hypothetical assessments. 

I believe that it is in America's interests and in the interests of the Iraqis
for us to have an orderly withdrawal. I've been saying for many months that
the administration has to do more to plan, and I've been pushing them to
actually do it. I've also said that I would begin to withdraw within 60 days
based on a plan that I asked begun to be put together as soon as I became
president.

And I think we can take out one to two brigades a month. I've also been a
leader in trying to prevent President Bush from getting us committed to
staying in Iraq regardless for as long as Senator McCain and others have said
it might be, 50 to a hundred years.

So, when you talk about what we need to do in Iraq, we have to make judgments
about what is in the best interest of America. And I believe this is in the
best interest.

But I also have heard Senator Obama refer continually to Afghanistan, and he
references being on the Foreign Relations Committee. He chairs the
Subcommittee on Europe. It has jurisdiction over NATO. NATO is critical to our
mission in Afghanistan. He's held not one substantive hearing to do oversight,
to figure out what we can do to actually have a stronger presence with NATO in
Afghanistan.

You have to look at the entire situation to try to figure out how we can
stabilize Afghanistan and begin to put more in there to try to get some kind
of success out of it, and you have to work with the Iraqi government so that
they take responsibility for their own future.


 Well, but I have -- I just have to add -- 


 Now wait a minute, I have to add -- 


 \-- because the question -- the question was about invading -- invading -- Iraq. 


 (From videotape.) Now I could stand up here and say: Let's just get everybody together. Let's get unified. The sky will open -- (laughter) -- the light will come down -- (laughter) -- celestial choirs will be singing -- (laughter) -- and everyone will know we should do the right thing, and the world will be perfect! 


 (Laughs.) 

(Laughter.)


 (Laughs.) 

(Laughter.)


 Well, I was having a little fun. You know, it's hard to find time to have fun on the campaign trail, but occasionally you can sneak that in. 

But the larger point is that I know trying to get health insurance for every
American that's affordable will not be easy. It's not going to come about just
because we hope it will or we tell everybody it's the right thing to do. You
know, 15 years ago I tangled with the health insurance industry and the drug
companies, and I know it takes a fighter. It takes somebody who will go toe-
to-toe with the special interests.

You know, I have put forth very specific ideas about how we can get back $55
billion from the special interests -- the giveaways to the oil companies, the
credit card companies, the student loan companies, the health insurance
companies. These have all been basically pushed on to these special interests
not just because of what the White House did, but because members of Congress
went along. And I want to get that money back and invest it in the American
middle class -- health care, college affordability, the kinds of needs that
people talk to me about throughout Ohio, because what I hear as I go from
Toledo to Parma to Cleveland to, you know, Dayton is the same litany that
people are working harder than ever, but they're not getting ahead. They feel
like they're invisible to their government. So when it came time to vote on
Dick Cheney's energy bill, I voted no, and Senator Obama voted yes. When it
came time to try to cap interest rates for credit cards at 30 percent -- which
I think is way too high, but it was the best we could present -- I voted yes
and Senator Obama voted no.


 So part of what we have to do here is recognize that the special interests are not going to give up without a fight. And I believe that I am a fighter, and I will fight for the people of Ohio and the people of America. 


 Well, the American people who support me are bankrolling my campaign. That's -- that's obvious. You can look and see the hundreds of thousands of contributions that I've gotten. And ever since I lent my campaign money, people have responded just so generously. I'm thrilled at so many people getting involved. And we're raising, on average, about a million dollars a day on the Internet. And if anybody's out there, wants to contribute, to be part of this campaign, just go to HillaryClinton.com, because that's who's funding my campaign. 

And I will release my tax returns. I have consistently said that. And I will
--


 Well, I will do it as others have done it: upon becoming the nominee, or even earlier, Tim, because I have been as open as I can be. 

You have -- the public has 20 years of records for me, and I have very
extensive filings with the Senate where --


 Well, I can't get it together by then, but I will certainly work to get it together. I'm a little busy right now; I hardly have time to sleep. But I will certainly work toward releasing, and we will get that done and in the public domain. 


 Absolutely. I've urged that the process be as quick as possible. It's a cumbersome process, set up by law. It doesn't just apply to us, it applies to everyone in our position. And I have urged that our end of it move as expeditiously as we can. Now, also, President Bush claims the right to look at anything that is released, and I would urge the Bush White House to move as quickly as possible. 


 As soon as we can, Tim. I've urged that, and I hope it will happen. 


 I just want to add something here, because I faced a similar situation when I ran for the Senate in 2000 in New York. And in New York, there are more than the two parties, Democratic and Republican. And one of the parties at that time, the Independence Patty, was under the control of people who were anti-Semitic, anti- Israel. And I made it very clear that I did not want their support. I rejected it. I said that it would not be anything I would be comfortable with. And it looked as though I might pay a price for that. But I would not be associated with people who said such inflammatory and untrue charges against either Israel or Jewish people in our country. 

And, you know, I was willing to take that stand, and, you know, fortunately
the people of New York supported me and I won. But at the time, I thought it
was more important to stand on principle and to reject the kind of conditions
that went with support like that.


 No. I'm just saying that you asked specifically if he would reject it. And there's a difference between denouncing and rejecting. And I think when it comes to this sort of, you know, inflammatory -- I have no doubt that everything that Barack just said is absolutely sincere. But I just think, we've got to be even stronger. We cannot let anyone in any way say these things because of the implications that they have, which can be so far reaching. 


 Good. Good. Excellent. 

(APPLAUSE)


 Well, I can tell you that he's a hand-picked successor, that he is someone who is obviously being installed by Putin, who Putin can control, who has very little independence, the best we know. You know, there's a lot of information still to be acquired. That the so-called opposition was basically run out of the political opportunity to wage a campaign against Putin's hand-picked successor, and the so-called leading opposition figure spends most of his time praising Putin. So this is a clever but transparent way for Putin to hold on to power, and it raises serious issues about how we're going to deal with Russia going forward. 

I have been very critical of the Bush administration for what I believe to
have been an incoherent policy toward Russia. And with the reassertion of
Russia's role in Europe, with some of the mischief that they seem to be
causing in supporting Iran's nuclear ambitions, for example, it's imperative
that we begin to have a more realistic and effective strategy toward Russia.
But I have no doubt, as president, even though technically the meetings may be
with the man who is labeled as president, the decisions will be made by Putin.


 Medvedev -- whatever. 


 Yes. 


 Well, obviously, I've said many times that, although my vote on the 2002 authorization regarding Iraq was a sincere vote, I would not have voted that way again. 

I would certainly, as president, never have taken us to war in Iraq. And I
regret deeply that President Bush waged a preemptive war, which I warned
against and said I disagreed with.

But I think that this election has to be about the future. It has to be about
what we will do now, how we will deal with what we're going to inherit.

You know, we've just been talking about Russia. We could have gone around the
world. We could have gone to Latin America and talked about, you know, the
retreat from democracy. We could have talked about Africa and the failure to
end the genocide in Darfur.

We could have gone on to talk about the challenge that China faces and the
Middle East, which is deteriorating under the pressures of Hamas, Hezbollah,
and the interference that is putting Israel's security at stake.

We could have done an entire program, Tim, on what we will inherit from George
Bush.

And what I believe is that my experience and my unique qualifications on both
ends of Pennsylvania Avenue equip me to handle with the problems of today and
tomorrow and to be prepared to make those tough decisions in dealing with
Putin and others, because we have so much work to do, and we don't have much
time to try to make up for our losses.


 Absolutely. I've said that many times. 


 Well, Brian, there isn't any doubt that, you know, both of us feel strongly about our country, that we bring enormous energy and commitment to this race and would bring that to the general election and to the White House. 

As I said last week, you know, it's been an honor to campaign. I still intend
to do everything I can to win, but it has been an honor, because it has been a
campaign that is history making.

You know, obviously I am thrilled to be running, to be the first woman
president, which I think would be a sea change in our country and around the
world, and would give enormous...

(APPLAUSE)

... you know, enormous hope and, you know, a real challenge to the way things
have been done, and who gets to do them, and what the rules are.

So I feel that either one of us will make history.

The question that I have been posing is, who can actually change the country?
And I do believe that my experience over 35 years in the private sector as
well as the public and the not-for-profit sector, gives me an understanding
and an insight into how best to make the changes that we all know we have to
see.

You know, when I wasn't successful about getting universal health care, I
didn't give up. I just got to work and helped to create the Children's Health
Insurance Program. And, you know, today in Ohio 140,000 kids have health
insurance. And yet this morning in Lorain, a mother said that she spent with
the insurance and everything over $3 million taking care of her daughter, who
had a serious accident. And she just looked at me, as so many mothers and
fathers have over so many years, and said, "will you help us?"

That's what my public life has been about. I want to help the people of this
country get the chances they deserve to have. And I will do whatever I can
here in Ohio, in Texas, Rhode Island, in the states to come making that case.
Because I think we do need a fighter back in the White House.

You know, the wealthy and the well-connected have had a president. It's time
we had a president for the middle class and working people, the people who get
up every day and do the very best they can. And they deserve somebody who gets
up in that White House and goes to bat for them.

And that's what I will do.


