 Like Lee Iacocca said, I'm back from the past, a new leader. My name is Mike Gravel, and I'm running for president of the United States for real. 


 Totally. Totally. It's just that simple. Four of these people here will say that it's George Bush's war. It was facilitated by the Democrats. They brought the resolution up, one of them authored, co-authored it here, standing here, and so it's -- sure, it's George Bush's war, but it's the Democrats' war also. 

Now, you want to end it? You're concerned about what's going to happen after
we withdraw. Remember Vietnam. All the dominoes are going to fall, Southeast
Asia's going to go -- is going to go communist. Well, how do we know what will
happen? I do know this, that the insurgency is successful because the
population sustains that insurgency. Period.


 Not at all, because it's a moral criteria. And there's information coming out -- Senator Durbin, Mr. Strum in his book -- that really points out that these people knew that there was two sets of intelligence going on at the same time, and they made a political decision to vote the way they voted, a political decision that cost -- stop and think, we have killed more Americans than was done in the 11th of September. 


 More Americans died because of their decision. That disqualifies them for president. It doesn't mean they're bad people, it just means that they don't have moral judgment, and that's very important when you become president. 


 Yeah. We speak English. That doesn't mean we can't encourage other languages. I speak French and English. People speak Spanish and English. But the official language of the United States of America is English. 


 I'm already -- 


 Wolf? Just 30 seconds, Wolf. 


 Should have been gotten rid of 20 years ago. 


 How would I use him? I like Clinton as a roving ambassador around the world. He'd be good. He could take his wife with him, who will still be in the Senate. (Laughter.) 


 And -- and -- but I'd be careful with the president, former president because I know he whimped out with respect to gays in the military. I can only wish that he had been like Harry Truman, who stood up to Omar Bradley when he integrated the services, which made possible for Colin Powell to now stare down the president of the United States when the president should have demanded immediate integration. That's what -- what can we do. 

But under supervision, I think he'll do okay. (Laughter.)


 Yeah, well, I join him on the carbon tax. And, of course, that will raise the price of gasoline. Let's be candid about that. 

There's nothing I would do as president to lower the price of gasoline right
now. We Americans have to grow up. If we want to get off of the dependency in
the Middle East, we have to own up to the problem. These things cost money.
They're controlling our society.

And the sooner we stop fighting these wars -- here, stop and think. You only
see $3. Just watch those wheels turn. There's another $4, which is what we
spend to keep American troops around the world to keep the price.

So you're paying more than seven dollars a gallon; you just don't know it.


 Very much. I get my meds from the VA, so I know the situation quite well. 


 I'm satisfied, very much so, and I think they do a good job. But I think it's really somewhat appalling because the government has always, always waged war against the veterans. And I would suggest that Senator Obama, who's on the committee, did they do any -- any oversight work to find out, before they read in The Washington Post that there was a scandal up the street at Walter Reed? 


 I mean, what about that? 


 Did they all get informed of that, or did you know it before? 


 But did you know about it ahead of time? 


 Not enough information. Not enough information. 


 And obviously, I filibustered and forced the end of the draft. I don't think we need it back. If you want to volunteer for the military, you're entitled to do it. 

I would like to see a voluntary program where young people would have an
opportunity to render public service, whether it's in the military, whether
it's the Peace Corps, whether it's the AmeriCorps -- all of the above. And
then for every year that you serve, we'll give you four years of school free.
(Applause.) That would give you an incentive to move forward and do something
about education in this country.


 Totally. Totally. It's abominable. And the only way you're going to get rid of it is to give the president the line- item veto, and of course they're not going to give the president the line-item veto. What we need to do is change the entire tax structure. 

I want to point out that the comptroller general of the United States invited
all the presidential candidates to come in for a briefing. I went in for a
briefing. He said there was only two other people that came in for a briefing.
What the briefing -- he told us is that we have a fiscal gap on the order of
$50 trillion. And you're hearing all this money's going to be spent to do all
these great things? My God, don't believe a word of it. Follow the money.


 You can't get all this money coming at you, millions of dollars from all the special interests, and think that they're now going to deal with solving the problems with special interests. Won't happen. 


 Listen. They've been raiding the Social Security trust funds of $200 million a year, and they're all involved in this. Now, what do they say about it? You balance the budget by raiding the Social Security fund of $200 million a year? And they're doing it now! 


 Top priority is to turn to these people and say they're part of the leadership right now in the Congress. They could end the war if they want to -- 


 \-- all they got to do is show the leadership and that will qualify them to be president. 


 First off, let me thank the organizers. This is the fairest debate or forum that we've had thus far this year. 

Let me add that racism was here with us at the beginning of this country. It
was here in the last century, and it's going to be with us in the 21st
century. And one of the areas that touches me the most and enrages me the most
is our war on drugs that this country has been putting forth for the last
generation.

In 1972, we had 179,000 human beings in jail in this country; today, it's 2.3
million, and 70 percent are black, African-Americans. (Light applause.) And I
hope my colleagues will join me in standing up and saying, like FDR did with
Prohibition, "We'll do away with that." And FDR did it. And if I'm president,
I will do away with the war on drugs, which does nothing but savage our inner
cities and put our children at risk. (Applause.)

There's no reason for this. There's not an American that doesn't understand
the culture and the understanding that Prohibition was a failure, and so we
repeat it again like we repeated Iraq after we had the failure of Vietnam.
When will we learn? When we learn that the issue of drugs is a public health
issue. Addiction is a public health issue, not a criminal issue where we throw
people in jail and criminalize them to no advancement to the people --
(applause) -- and if there's one group of people in this country that needs to
face up to that problem, and we have to face up to it, and that is the African
American community. (Applause.)


 I touched on it earlier. The scourge of our present society, particularly in the African-American community, is the war on drugs. I'll repeat again as a challenge to my colleagues on this stage, that if they really want to do something about the inner cities, if they really want to do something about what's happening to 

the health of the African-American community, it's time to end this war.

There's no reason to continue it in the slightest. All it does is create
criminals out of people who are not criminals.

Education? Yes. Health care? Yes. But understand that the health care that
we're talking about, by and large, is going backwards, going backwards. We're
subsidizing the insurance companies. And all the plans that I've heard of,
except Dennis's, is a continued subsidization of the insurance companies.

Please, put pressure on these people to step up and end this war on drugs,
which is ravishing your community. (Applause.)


 I want to say that none of you are going to live in your lifetime to see our system of taxation change, based upon what you've heard here. I was -- (laughter) -- I was eight years on the Finance Committee -- none of them have served on that committee -- and I'll tell you, the code stands that high and there's not a human being alive that understands it. 

And it's with Democrats, with Republicans, they take care of the people. Do
you think it's accident that all of a sudden we wake up, that the wealthy
aren't paying a fair share? The only way they're going to pay a fair share is
wipe out the income tax -- it is corrupt, it's corrupting our society --
(applause) -- and begin to put in place a tax that everybody will know what
everybody's paying, and that's a retail sales tax. And you can make it as
progressive as you want. Keep in mind, a tax where everybody will know what
everybody is paying.


 You won't see it with this. 


 Is it a surprise to anybody in this room that if you don't have any money, you don't get any justice? (Laughter.) Is that a surprise to you all? (Applause.) My gracious, the only way you're going to get justice is to turn around and empower yourselves to become lawmakers so you can change the system, and there's no thought of really changing the system today. It's politics as usual. (Applause.) 


 The answer to the question is yes. And just keep in mind, if we weren't squandering our treasure on this terrible war that we didn't have to start, we would have 4 million housing units available, and a good portion of them could go to Katrina residents. (Applause.) 


 No, outsourcing is not the problem. What is the problem is our trade agreements that we have that benefit the management and, of course, the shareholders, and have neglected on either side of the issue, whether it's in Mexico or in other countries or the United States. That's the problem that must be addressed. 

So, no, it's not outsourcing. But I would add to it, it's the way all of these
people want to finance health care, on the backs of businesses, that make them
uncompetitive in the world. That's part of the problem. And our system of
taxation is also part of the problem because it makes us uncompetitive in the
world.


 It's very simple. If we have a president, he has to have moral judgment. 


 What? No mike? You can't hear me? 


 You can hear me now? We have to have a president who has moral judgment. Most of the people on this stage with me do not have that judgment, and have proven it by the simple fact of what they've done. (Laughter.) 


 I wouldn't use either word. (Off mike) -- better than that. (Off mike) -- asked about change. You're not going to see any change when these people get elected. We were asked about -- that we're united. We're not united. I'm not united on many of their views. 

And I want to take on Barack Obama for a minute, who said he doesn't take
money from lobbyists. Well, he has 134 bundlers. Now what does he think that
is? And besides that, he has received money from a Robert Wolf, the head of
the USB Bank (sic; UBS Bank) in the United States, who raised $195,000 from
this bank




 ... and it's a foreign-owned bank. 


 Wait a minute... 

(APPLAUSE)


 The problem goes a little bit deeper than that. It's because we haven't owned up to our responsibilities to a sense of global governance. And so now, you've got a situation with the United States of America, as Joe says, wants to go in, but the African nations don't want us there. 

What's the message? They're afraid of us. They're flat afraid of us. And if
you'll permit me, since I haven't got as much time as the others.


 Thank you very much, Anderson. 


 John, why would you think I would flip-flop? I've never flip-flopped before, and I like the question. I don't get very many of them, but I'll just tell you... 

(LAUGHTER)

(APPLAUSE)

Thank you. Thank you. Has it been fair thus far? I'll tell you, John, it's a
set up question. Our soldiers died in Vietnam in vain. You can now, John, go
to Hanoi and get a Baskin-Robbins ice cream cone. That's what you can do. And
now we have most favored nation trade.

What did all these people die for? What are they dying for right now in Iraq
every single day? Let me tell you: There's only one thing worse than a soldier
dying in vain; it's more soldiers dying in vain.

(APPLAUSE)


 Well, of course I want to take credit and admit that I'm the guy that filibustered for five months, all by myself, in the Senate to end the draft in the United States of America. 

And I'm very proud of that because George Bush does not have the boots on the
ground to invade Iran.


 Of course women should be going -- go into the draft if we're going to have a draft. They should register also. What's the difference? 


 George Bush's oil war was a mistake. We need to stop killing Americans and Iraqis. Been around since the beginning of time. It's not a war. It should be a police action based on global intelligence. It's the most serious problem facing humanity today. 

A universal voucher system will provide equal treatment and choice of
providers.

The Congress has to stop raiding the surplus.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

(APPLAUSE)


 A brother by the name of Edgar Burke (ph), who's since deceased, became a priest later, he recognized me as a very failing student because I was dyslexic and couldn't read very well. And so he gave me some attention and taught me to speak, and that's what little chance I get to use it today. 

Thank you.

(LAUGHTER)


 My children went to public school and private school, and I'm recommend that we need a little bit of competition in our system of education. Right now, we have 30 percent of our children do not graduate from high school. That is abominable, and that is the problem of both parties. 

(APPLAUSE)


 Very simple, change our tax structure. Have a fair tax where people are taxed on what they spend rather than what they earn. And our tax system is totally corrupt right now. 

And so if we now have a retail sales tax, you'll take this nation of ours from
a consuming nation to a savings nation.


 And that's the most significant thing we can do to alter climate change. 

(APPLAUSE)


 I took the train... 

(APPLAUSE)


 And maybe one of these will give me a ride someday. 

(LAUGHTER)


 Oh, yes, I would, but I would say that we don't need a minimum wage; we need a living wage. We don't have that in this country because of what they passed. 

(APPLAUSE)


 Well, yes, I do, a serious problem. The Democratic Party used to stand for the ordinary working man. But the Clintons and the DLC sold out the Democratic Party to Wall Street. 

Look at where all the money is being raised right now, for Hillary, Obama and
Edwards. It's the hedge funds, it's Wall Street bankers, it's the people who
brought you what you have today.

Please wake up. Just look at the New York Times of the 17th of July that
analyzes where the money's coming from.


 It comes from the bankers on Wall Street and of course hedge funds, which is code for bankers on Wall Street. And they're lock, stock and barrel in their pocket. 


 I turn to my left and I like Chris Dodd. I knew his dad, I served with his dad. 

I do have a difference of opinion with respect to where the money's coming
from.


 I've advocated, people, follow the money if you want to find out what's going to happen after any one of these individuals are elected. Follow the money, because it's politics as usual is what you're seeing. 


 Senator Obama represents change and he's an enormously fresh voice in the political process. 


 That's very good but, under the last 25 years, this nation has continued to expand its nuclear capability. 


 I would say that, essentially, they're all wrong on this. They're, sort of, leading up -- the administration is cooking the books, the intelligence on Iran. 

And we're playing into this. And I'm very concerned. I would hope the Congress
would pass a resolution saying, under no circumstances do you invade Iran.

Stop and think. What have we -- what have they done to us?

They're giving us intelligence, saying that they're destroying our troops.
Well, what about our trying to destabilize their government, which we've been
doing for the last 25 years?

We destroyed their democracy. And now we're looking at them as an excuse to
expand the war, which is the plan the neocons had back in 1997. And so, when
Democrats buy into the problem of Iran, they just help Vice President Cheney,
who should be committed, with his recent statements...

(LAUGHTER)

(APPLAUSE)


 George, could I respond? 


 No, I disagree with him. And I disagree with Joe Biden. And I disagree with Hillary. 

(LAUGHTER)

Well, stop and think here. Why do we think that we can rule that country?

This is American imperialism you're hearing up here. And that hasn't worked
and it will never work.

Who are we to tell the Iraqis -- we're trying to make them the fall guy, not
our stupid mistakes. Oh, it's the Iraqis won't stand up.

I'll tell you what. Pull everybody out and turn to the Iranians, who helped us
defeat the Taliban initially. It was the Iranians. So if we don't bring the
Iranians to help us, or the Syrians, or Saudi Arabia, of course it's going to
be a disaster.

They have more at stake in that area of the world than we do.


 ... would do is pull back and use diplomacy. 


 What I believe in is love. And love implements courage. And courage permits us all to apply the virtues that are important in life. 

And so you can pray -- I was always persuaded or struck by the fact that many
people who pray are the ones who want to go to war, who want to kill fellow
human beings. That disturbs me.

I think what we need is more love between one human being and another human
being.


 And then we'll find the courage to dispel many of the problems we have in governance. The answer to governance is not up here on the dais. The answer is with the American people and the people of Iowa. That's where the answer is. 

And I have a proposal, and it's the only one that talks of change. The change
is to empower the American people with a national initiative.

And my colleagues, with all due respect, don't even understand the principle
of the people having the power.

(APPLAUSE)


 Yes, I can tell one issue that they're not living up to. My colleagues have all said that they want public financing... 


 Well, no, I'm part of it, and I'm telling the truth. 

They can do this right now. There's nothing -- and I asked for a pledge from
all of them to immediately obey the law we have on the books to use public
financing.

They can store their money, their millions, for the general election. But
right now, in the primaries, why can't they say what they promised and they
said they're for? Otherwise, it means there's a little hypocrisy abroad here.


 Can I expand upon that since I've said I'm for merit pay? 


 Don't leave me hanging. 


 No, stop and think: They're all talking business as usual, politics as usual. 

This country, we're so proud. We think we're number one.


 He just gave you a statistic of how bad we are. 

I'll give you another one: We're 46th in literacy in the world -- in the
world. Thirty percent of our children do not graduate from high school. What
does that mean for the future of this country?

And all we get are the same old nostrums, that we need competition in
education. Stop and think: Here, Iran -- not Iran -- Spain, Norway, Finland --
these countries, they're not the superpower of the world, but they pay for
their children, from childhood to Ph.D. levels.

Why can't Americans put education as the top priority? And you can't do it
when you want to expand, as he wants to expand, 100,000 more troops. Who are
we going to nuke, who are we going to fight next?


 All I would say is that there's no answer to that question. Just follow the money of the people on this dais and you'll see a response. 

(LAUGHTER)


 The decisive moment in my life came with the insightfulness of realizing that human governance is extremely complex and that representative government is broken. 

And so, there's only two venues for change: One is the government, where the
problem lies, or the people.


 And so the people must be equipped as lawmakers, the central power of government, in order to make decisions on all the policy issues that affect their lives, working in partnership with elected government. 

It's a win-win. The people make the policy decisions, and we then would make
the day-to-day operation of government work better.


 You're one of the few that has. 


 Well, the first thing, you stop the debate by voting every single day on cloture, every day, 20 days, and you'll overcome cloture. The president vetoes a law; it comes back to the Congress, and in the House at noon, every single day, you vote to override the president's veto. And in 40 days, the American people will have weighed in, put the pressure on those -- you tell me that the votes aren't there, you go get them by the scruff of the neck. That's what you do. You make them vote. 


 If it stops the killing, my God, yes, do it! And, Tim, you're really missing something. This is Fantasyland. We're talking about ending the war; my God, we're just starting a war right today. There was a vote in the Senate today -- Joe Lieberman, who authored the Iraq resolution, has offered another resolution, and it essentially a fig leaf to let George Bush go to war with Iran. And I want to congratulate Biden for voting against it, Dodd for voting against, and I'm ashamed of you, Hillary, for voting for it. You're not going to get another shot at this, because what's happened if this war ensues -- we invade and they're looking for an excuse to do it. 

And Obama was not even there to vote.


 Real fast? This whole nation should be a sanctuary for the (war ?) -- for the world and bring the people in. What's going on? Again, we're in fantasy-land. We're talking about a problem, it's -- we're scapegoating the Latinos of our society because we as a society are failing in education, we're failing in health care, we're failing in our crumbling infrastructure, and we're failing by invading countries and spending our treasure. That's what's wrong. 

And so I'm ashamed, as an American, to be building a fence on our southern
border. That's not the America that I fought for. (Applause.)


 Correct. 


 Correct. 


Well, first off, if you want to make a judgment of who can be the greediest people in the world when they get to public office, you could just look up at the people up here. Money -- many of them done very, very well in public office. I left the Senate no better than when I went in. 

Now, you say the condo business. I'll tell you, Donald Trump has been bankrupt
a hundred times. So I went bankrupt once in business.

And the other -- who did I bankrupt? I stuck the credit card companies with
$90,000 worth of bills. And they deserved it, because I used the money.
(Laughter.) They deserved it, and I used the money to finance the empowerment
of the American people with the National Initiative, so you can make the laws.

Now, Tim, let me just point one thing out.


 You're asking about special interests. 


 Well, I wanted to make a better point. (Laughter.) 


 I think we should lower it to -- anybody that can go fight and die for this country should be able to drink. (Applause.) 


 First off, let me qualify it. I would ask the Congress -- they don't do it -- but then I would empower the American people to do it, and that is to put a carbon tax on. If we don't do something drastic -- and we can get off of gasoline in five years, and we can get off of carbon in 10 years; all we got to do is want to do it. And to put a tax on gasoline permits politicians and bureaucrats to play favorites. You do it right at the lump of coal, and you do at the gas, and you do it at the oil, and then let it filter through the system properly. 


 Not at all. The solution obviously is wind power. If we manufactured 5 million of these 2.5 meg windmills across the country, we could electrify the entire nation -- the entire nation. I'm talking about our transportation system. 

Why don't we do that? We know the -- this is technology off the shelf. That's
why I kept saying, we can get off of gasoline in five years; we can get off of
carbon in 10 years.


 All we've got to want is to do it. And it will take the American people, because they can't get that through the Congress. 


 The most important thing in life is love. That's what empowers courage, and courage implements the rest of our virtues. 


 I'm from New England. I was born in Massachusetts. Do you have to ask that question? 


 Iran's not a problem, never has been, never will be. What you're seeing right here is something very unique, very courageous. What the intelligence community has done is drop kick the president of the United States. These are people of courage that have watched what the president is doing, the on rush to war with Iran. 

And so by releasing this information, which is diametrically opposed to the
estimate that was given in '05, by showing that there is no information to
warrant what the White House has been doing, they have now boxed in the
president in his ability to go to war.

So my hat is off to these courageous people within the bureaucrats --
bureaucracy -- of the intelligence community.


 There is no evidence. There is no evidence. 


 And they've produced none. Our military has no evidence and they've not produced any. 

But let's -- I want to touch something that they're all giving license to;
that there's something wrong with Iran supporting Hamas and Hezbollah.

These are two elected organizations. And why can't they give support to those
organizations?

Israel doesn't want it. So why do they buy, hook, line and sinker, that they
can't give aid to Hamas and Hezbollah?

We give unlimited aid to Israel. These people are fighting for their rights.


 Is there something wrong with that? 


 Yes, Michele, I want to take you to task, credit to your first rhetoric. And that was this great, tremendous... 

MDOERATOR: I believe it was a question.


 Right. The tremendous increase in the defense. 

There are only 10 percent of American defense.


 They haven't had a tremendous increase -- 10 percent of our defense. 

And I want to take all of them to task. Clearly, none of them are running for
China -- president of China, because this amount of demagoguery is shameful.

Here, the Chinese people have a problem. And when we continue this rhetoric of
beggar thy neighbor, where our interests always come first, there should be
the interest of human beings, the interest of human beings -- because, when
you have a foreign policy that's

beggar thy neighbor, we all become beggars.

And so when they talk about the currency of China, what about what
manipulations we do?

What about the American companies that dump things abroad?


 What about the tariffs? You want to have a... 


 Thank you. 

(LAUGHTER)


 This has become obvious in this discussion; that there has to be a reason why, over the last 15 years we haven't solved this problem as a nation. 

Stop and think. Our unemployment level is about 4.5, and that's about as low
as you can get it. So where is the problem? We have to have people fill these
jobs. They come in and fill these jobs. We call them illegal.

Are they illegal? They're filling jobs that need to be done. If we were to
chase them out, aren't we playing to the nativist, the crazies who are opposed
to anybody coming in since they got here?

And the media plays into this. The Congress plays into this. Just open our
doors. When the jobs are there to be filled, they'll come in. The jobs aren't
there, they'll go home.

We can deal with all these other problems in trade, but we're making a
mountain out of a mole hill. We're creating laws. We're trying to deal with
this.

Deal with the obvious. We do not seem, as a nation, to be able to solve this
problem the way we've been approaching it.


 It always has been. All waves have changed our society. And it's changed it for the good. 


 I don't have the answer to be able to persuade the American people that they are the solution, not their leaders. I wish I had the answer to convince them of that. 


