
I think it's a problem. I think it's a problem not only for the Roman Catholic Church, but it's a problem with the Constitution and the platform of the Republican Party. 

Every year the Republican Party, both at the state level in Iowa, nationally,
are parties that come out very avidly and passionately on being pro-life. And
I think any candidate that's pro-choice is going to have a difficulty with the
party faithful and those individuals that have come to this district and the
state and national meetings and have avowed time and time again that this
party, the Republican Party, is a party of pro-life.

So anybody that's not pro-life is going to have difficulties. That's the
question.

Beyond that, however, I think you've got to look beyond just one issue. And
the issue that really concerns me, of course, is the health issues of America.

And we get tied up in one particular issue and we really don't go to some of
the major issues that are affecting America—not that pro-life isn't—but we
have to get down—and this debate should be about the major issues affecting
the voters of Iowa and nationally, instead of trying to choose one person
against another on this campaign.


 Every single one of us up here have got issues, positions, and every single one of us believe very strongly of those. And I think that speaks highly of the Republican Party. 


 Thank you very much. I've laid out a whole plan to really win the peace in Iraq. I've laid out a plan that we have to defend and give all our resources and every single tool possible to our fighting men and women. I have been with them, like a lot of the people up here have, and they're the finest young men and women we'll ever have in our military. But beyond that, it is not fair to America and to Americans to shoulder all of the burden. To pay for a war that's costing us $10 billion a month—and we're not funding, we're just passing on to our children and grandchildren—not requiring the Iraqi government to stand up and vote, that's a failure of Congress and the president of the United States. Because they do need to demand that that government makes a political statement, and help pay for that war, and help fight to win that war. Secondly, I differ with Senator Brownback. They can't even decide in parliament in Iraq whether or not they're going to be able to take a month or six weeks off for summer. 


 How will they ever decide three particular divisions? They've already got that country divided into 18 states that have been there since 1921. And if, in fact, you're going to elect people, why don't you a elect state leader, like you do in Iowa, like we do in Wisconsin, all over America? And those individual governments will be Shiite, Sunnis and Kurds. And it will stop the civil war. And split the oil revenue between the federal government, the state governments, and every man and woman and child, like we do in Alaska, and give those individuals the opportunity to build their country. That will make a stable Iraq. (inaudible) 

(APPLAUSE)


 David, I want you to know that health care is one of my major dominant fields. I was secretary of health. Neither one of them are right. The problem is, is Governor Huckabee is absolutely correct. We've got a sickness, illness and disease society. We spend 90 percent of $2 trillion, ladies and gentlemen—that's 16 percent of the gross national product—on getting people well after they get sick. Less than 10 percent of the money keeping you out of the hospital, out of the nursing home. Does anybody in America think that's a smart idea? I think it's dumb. Let's go to wellness and prevention. Number two, let's start managing diseases in America. Let's make sure that individuals that are chronically ill and physically disabled are able to get the quality of health and therefore get the quality of life. They take up 66 percent of the cost. You could reduce that down to 50 percent. 


 Number three—I just would like to say—on the uninsured, you could get one form, like we do on the 1040 for taxes, one form for the employment system, and you could save $137 billion. That would cover all of the uninsured in America without raising taxes, ladies and gentlemen. 


 I am for expanding SCHIP, but not the way Congress has done it. 


 But, George... 


 I would like to... 

(CROSSTALK) 
 Thank you very much, George. I sincerely believe that bombing religious artifacts and religious holy sites would do nothing but unify 1 billion Muslims against us. It makes no sense. 

(APPLAUSE) 
 I would like to say you have to strengthen your military. What we (inaudible) as Americans, we have to be so politically correct in this country. When we have democracies in South America that are supporting us, we sort of ignore them, until somebody elects a guy like Chavez who hates us. Then we wake up and say something about it. 


 I think we've got to strengthen our military and we've got to recognize in this world right now we are fighting a holy war. It's a jihad. And until we recognize that and stand up to be Americans and for America, we're going to continue to lose... 


 I believe that Vice President Cheney is criticized for a lot of things that he doesn't do. 

(APPLAUSE) And I believe that Dick Cheney is an honorable individual. And I
think the president of the United States depends a great deal upon him. But I
would like to also quickly point out, since I'm not going to get a chance, is
that I don't want to leave this audience—you know, when you said that nobody
supports Senator Grassley's SCHIP program, to have the press—because I know
how the press acts—that the press will come back, "All Republicans are against
poor children and health care for them." That is not what we said.

(LAUGHTER)


 We said that what we want to do is we want to change SCHIP on a competitive model, against the Democrats... 


 No, but I really want to make that... 


 My mother-in-law died of breast cancer, my mother. My wife has breast cancer. My young daughter has breast cancer. I don't think I was supportive enough, and that's why I'm vowing right now to end breast cancer by the year 2015 for all the women in America. 

(APPLAUSE)


 I would open up the East Wing. I would open it up to bring in the best minds—Democrats, Republicans, independents across America—that want to get something done with this great country. Instead of tearing it down, start building, pro-America, and make sure that we're not so politically correct that we are sacrificing our values in America in this jihadist war. And by bringing in the best minds, the best people, we can change the direction and really start building America a stronger and healthier and better tomorrow than ever before. 

(APPLAUSE)


 Well, we've got an hour and a half. 

Maybe they can work on it.

(LAUGHTER)

But, they...

(APPLAUSE)

Actually, Mitt, I didn't know there was any room to the left of Ted Kennedy,
but maybe there...

(LAUGHTER)

In fact, I didn't know there was any room to the right of him, either, but
maybe...

(LAUGHTER)

I was conservative as soon as I put down Conscience of a Conservative when I
was in the college.

I came back to a little home town of Lawrenceburg, Tennessee, started the
first Young Republicans Club.

In eight years -- in eight years in the United States Senate, I fought for tax
cuts, a balanced budget, and welfare reform, all of which we achieved, and I
also fought for judges who would abide by the Constitution and the law and not
make it up as they went along.

(APPLAUSE)

All that time, I compiled a 100 percent pro-life voting record. Now, both
of...

(APPLAUSE)

They're only giving me a minute here. So both of these gentlemen have done
some good things in their respective jobs they've had.

But you mentioned Mayor Giuliani first. Mayor Giuliani believes in federal
funding for abortion. He believes in sanctuary cities. He's for gun control.
He supported Mario Cuomo, a liberal Democrat, against a Republican who was
running for governor; then opposed the governor's tax cuts when he was there.

So I simply disagree with him those issues. And he sides with Hillary Clinton
on each of those issues I just mentioned.


 You've just go a minute? 


 OK. 


 As far as tort reform is concerned, I supported tort reform with regard to securities legislation. I supported tort reform with regard to product liability legislation, things that have to do with interstate commerce. I think it appropriately passed. I supported and worked for those things. 

Local issues belong at the state level. Most states have passed tort reform.

(APPLAUSE)


 That's our system. It's not all federalized. 

You know, I'd point out, as far as lawsuits are concerned, I voted for and we
passed anti-sanctuary city build, outlawed them. Mayor Giuliani went to court,
filed suit himself to overturn our abolition of sanctuary cities. And,
fortunately, he lost.

(APPLAUSE)


 No, I... 


 No, what I said -- what I hope I said was that it was my private law practice, as opposed to my public service. I was a member of a firm, of counsel to a large firm. And it was their client. They asked me to do a little work on it. I made a few calls. And that was that. 

Frankly, I'd forgotten about it. But they've come forward now, because I'm
their worst nightmare.

After that happened, I went to the United States Senate and voted consistently
against them on every bill that came up. Now they're trying to defeat me.

(APPLAUSE)


 Yes. 


 Yeah. I did vote for it, and some of those critics were right. And some of us were wrong. What has happened is that, indeed, states have taught to the test. We've not gotten the transparency and the accountability that we thought we were getting. 

I like the idea of testing. (inaudible) it can't be like Lake Wobegon, where
all the children are above average, you know. Everybody's, you know, making 90
on the test, you're not learning very much.

I think what we need to do is realize the proper role of the federal
government. The federal government only is responsible for about 8 percent of
what is spent. We need to concentrate on helping the states, making sure that
8 percent is spent wisely.


 But there are a lot of good things going on at the state level, you know, in terms of free markets, in terms of competition, and the things that work in the rest of our society, vouchers, charter schools, things of that nature. 

States ought to be allowed to experiment and do the things that they know best
at the state and local level.

And we can't lay all this at the feet of any government. We have to accept
some hard truths. Part of the problem in our education system and with our
children has to do with the societal breakdown that's going on in this
country. We need more fathers to stay and raise their kids.

(APPLAUSE)


 Well, just what I said. Hillary is always a good applause line and almost everything everybody has said has been accurate. 

If we go down that road, we're going to go down the road of higher taxes.
Hillary basically says that, you know, 40 percent of the people pay about 99
percent of the taxes. Why not 30 percent of the people? Why not 20 percent of
the people?

We're going to have a windfall when the tax cuts expire at the end of 2010.
Let's use that money our way. We'll go down the road of power spending, where
people are told, Don't worry about your kids, don't worry about the next
generation, although we're clearly bankrupting them, with regard to their
Social Security and Medicare expenditures.


 We can't sustain it. But don't worry about that. We'll make it all up out of the rich. 

The only problem with Democrats is that everybody who works for a living is
rich, according to them.

(APPLAUSE)

They say that all we've got to do is bring the troops home, and the world will
leave us alone. They're the party that insults our generals and tries our
troops in the newspaper. And when they're exonerated, they're on page 15 or
20.

(APPLAUSE)

So what I meant was, if we stick to our basic principles, we will win next
November. But we've got to remember our first principles -- the fact that what
the founding fathers told us a long, long time ago, that our basic rights come
from God, not from government; that we have a system of divided government,
both state and local and state and federal level.

We believe in free markets. We believe in free people. We believe in free
enterprise. And Americans who work hard and play by the rules have a decent
chance of living the American Dream, just like I have and so many others have.

That's the things that we have to keep in mind. Let's don't get diverted onto
some single individual, whoever their nominee is. They're going to lead us
down the road to a comfortable mediocrity. And that's not the United States of
America I grew up in.

(APPLAUSE)


 Yes. As I think that you have stated them, yes. I don't want to be bound to your exact words, but the principles that you've outlined are absolutely... 


 ... are absolutely correct. 

It's based on the notion that there's no reason to run for the presidency of
the United States if you can't tell the truth. It's a difficult thing
politically...

(APPLAUSE)


 ... but the fact of the matter is we're bankrupting the next generation. We're spending the money of our grandkids and those yet to be born. They don't have a seat at the table. 

Our present mandatory spending cycle leaves us in an unsustainable position.
The comptroller tells us that, the Government Accountability Office --
everybody that looks at it says it's unsustainable.

Can you imagine something that's unsustainable and threatens our economy for
our grandchildren and those yet to be born not being discussed more on the
campaign trail?

I've just set out a couple of things that I think will avoid future
generational warfare, where we have to fight over a lot higher taxes or big
benefit cuts. If we do some responsible things now we don't have to do that.

And the indexing of benefits in the future, from wages to prices, is one way
to do that. Current retirees -- or for those near retirement wouldn't be
affected. And those retiring in the future would get the same benefits in real
dollars as those retiring now, but not more.


 Well -- no, it's OK. Let me answer that. 

I was a father at the age of 17 and a husband at the age of 17. I got started
working in a factory. I borrowed and worked my way through. My folks did what
they could to help. They were country folks -- came in off the farm.

I was able to be an assistant U.S. attorney when I was 28, prosecuting most of
the major federal crimes in middle Tennessee -- most of the major ones.


 Howard Baker selected me to go to Washington and be his counsel on the Watergate Committee at the age of 30. 

I came back, took on a corrupt state administration, and won against them. I
went to the United States Senate, got elected twice by 20 points in a state
that Bill Clinton carried twice.

Condoleezza Rice called upon me to head up an international security advisory
board to advise her on international security matters. President Bush called
me to help shepherd Chief Justice -- now-Chief Justice John Roberts'
nomination through the Judiciary Committee.

If a man can do all that and be lazy, I recommend it to everybody.

(LAUGHTER) (APPLAUSE)


 And I should add, the most important -- the most important part is I'm a proud father of five; two of them are under the age of four. So let me add that to the list. 

(LAUGHTER) (APPLAUSE)


 Yes, I pledge that. A nation that cannot and will not defend its own borders will not forever remain a sovereign nation. And it's unfair...

(Applause)

We have -- we have thousands of people standing in line at embassies around
the world to become United States American citizens, to come here to get a
green card, to come here and to assimilate and be a part of our culture. They
are part of what has made our country great. Some of our better citizens. We
all know them and love them.

Now, it's our country together -- their's and ours, now together. It's our
home. And we now get to decide who comes into our home.

And to place somebody above them or in front of them in line is the wrong
thing to do.

We've got to strengthen the border. We've got to enforce the border. We've got
to punish employers -- employers who will not obey the law. And we've got to
eliminate sanctuary cities and say to sanctuary cities, if you continue this,
we're going to cut off federal funding for you, you're not going to do it with
federal money.

(Applause)

Now, there are parts of what both of these gentlemen have just said that I
would like to associate myself with.

First of all, of course, Governor Romney supported the Bush immigration plan
until a short time ago. Now he's taken another position, surprisingly.

(Laughter)

As far as Mayor Giuliani is concerned, I am a little surprised the mayor says,
you know, everybody's responsible for everybody that they hire, but we'll have
to address that a little bit further later. I think we've all had people
probably that we have hired that in retrospect probably is a bad decision.

(Laughter)

He did have a sanctuary city. In 1996, I helped pass a bill outlawing
sanctuary cities. The mayor went to court to overturn it. So, if it wasn't a
sanctuary city, I'd call that a frivolous lawsuit.

(Applause)


 Well, it's a target-rich environment, there's no question about it. What most of these gentlemen have said absolutely correct. The difficulty is, most of the programs that we talk about, most of the ones get the headlines, would not begin to solve the problem.

Mitt's right when he mentions entitlement. That's why I have laid out a
program to not attack entitlements, but to save Social Security. Everybody
talks about wanting to do something about it. Social Security and Medicare and
Medicaid are the ones that we're really going to have to reform if we're going
to make any headway into spending.


 No. I didn't say that. There is -- the OMB has come out with a list of over 100 programs. I would take all 100 of them, the ones that are full of waste, fraud and duplication. I filed a report in 2001, when I was chairman of the Governmental Affairs Committee, and identified billions of dollars that we should be saving.

But my point is that we're going to have to reform Social Security, we're
going to have to reform Medicare. I've laid out a detailed plan that will give
individual retirement accounts for people, matched by the government, and also
re-index the way benefits are calculated initially when a person retires. And
together, that program has been said by the experts already -- to say that --
have said that it would, after 75 years, make Social Security actuarily sound.

I've got the only program out there that really addresses specifically one of
the programs that's going to have to be reformed.


 Cut -- tax cuts for eight years when I was in the United States Senate. Never met a tax I liked. I've got a tax-cut bill on the table. But I don't do pledges to anybody but the American people.


 I just wanted to give my buddies here a little extra airtime.

(Laughter)

(Applause)

Listen, I mean, what do you mean what's up with it? These are their words.


 Well, the mayor has supported a wide array of gun control laws. I'm not sure there's ever one that didn't come up for consideration in terms of legislation that he didn't support -- signing ceremonies with people from President Clinton's Cabinet and that sort of thing when they came up.

The Second Amendment is not a choice thing. I mean, it's in the Constitution
of the United States -- that's the protection that the people have against...

(Applause)

The case that the mayor refers to is the Washington D.C. case, and they were
taking the same position, basically, the mayor took, as far as the city of New
York is concerned.

They said, "You know, it will make a safer city if we outlaw law- abiding
citizens having the right to posses a firearm." It didn't make them a safer
city.

The D.C. Court of Appeals held that it was a violation of their Second
Amendment rights and, hopefully, the Supreme Court will uphold the D.C. court.


 I own a couple of guns, but I'm not going to tell you what they are or where they are.

(Laughter)

(Applause)


 Yes. The young lady's question is...

(Applause)

... the young lady's question is premised on if abortion becomes illegal. That
presumes Roe v. Wade is overturned, which I think should be our number one
focus right now. And that has to do with the kind of Supreme Court justices we
put on the bench.

(Applause)

I'm getting there. I'm getting there.

That would mean that it goes back to the states, and then the states would
have to outlaw it at an earlier stage than they outlaw it now. Then the
question would be, who gets penalized and what should the penalty be.

I think it should be fashioned along the same lines it is now. Most states
have abortion laws pertain and prohibit abortion after viability. It goes to
the doctor performing the abortion, not the girl, or the young girl, or her
parents, whoever it might be. I think that same pattern needs to be followed.
It could just be moved up earlier, or much earlier in the process if the state
so determined.


 We shouldn't be in there longer than necessary, and we don't know how long that will be. But we should be there absolutely as long as it takes to complete our mission there. It will make for a safer United States of America.

We're all focused, understandably, on Iraq and Afghanistan right now, but it
is part of a much bigger picture. Islamic terrorism has declared war on us and
Western civilization. They would like nothing better than to kill millions of
people as they bring us down. They would like to be able to advertise to young
radicals around the world that, "You, too, could help bring down the United
States of America."

Iran is waiting there to fill that vacuum. You think $90, $100 a barrel is
high for oil now, wait until that happens.

But more importantly, it would make for a less secure United States of
America. We have to do what's necessary. We have to take the opportunity that
we have now.

John's absolutely right. What's going on there is progress; it's called
progress.

Too many people in this country are vested in a scenario of defeat. I'm vested
in a scenario of victory and I see it happening there in Iraq today.

(Applause)


 First of all, I'm greatly relieved. For a second there, I thought that was me.

(LAUGHTER)


 I think that the vice president, of course, has a dual role. He has a place in the executive branch of government. He also presides over the Senate, so he has a place in the legislative branch also.

But a vice president ought to be chosen, basically, on his ability to serve as
president of the United States, if that situation were called for.

Therefore, he needs to be brought into the administration. I think that a vice
president ought to have substantial authority; I think especially on national
security areas. Expertise in that area is especially beneficial to a president
who is having to deal with all the issues a president has to deal with, but
certainly some expertise either in the domestic area or the national security
area.

Some legal training also might be helpful. I think one of the most important
things that we're going to be facing for this next president is the selection
of United States judges to the Supreme Court. So I think that all those are
things that you have to take into consideration in deciding what kind of
authority the vice president should have.

Basically, he should have the authority that the president gives him, and he
should adhere to that authority.


 I know that everybody who hangs the flag up in their room like that is not racist. I also know that for a great many Americans it's a symbol of racism.

So, therefore, as a public place -- he's free to do whatever he wants to in
his home. As far as a public place is concerned, I am glad that people have
made the decision not to display it as a prominent flag, symbolic of
something, at a state capitol. As a part of a group of flags or something of
that nature, you know, honoring various servicepeople at different times in
different parts of the country, I think that's different.

But, as a nation, we don't need to go out of our way to be bringing up things
that to certain people in our country that's bad for them.


 Our country has a $9 trillion debt. A good chunk of that is owned by China. We're bankrupting the next generation, without any question. Every economist in Washington who's looked at it will tell you that. It affects our national security for one reason is because we're squeezing military spending. We're spending at below historic norms under these circumstances for our defense, and we're spending twice as much for entitlements. That's why I put out a specific social security plan that'll save social security while saving the government $4 trillion. It's all in entitlements. We've got to spend more for the military, as a matter of fact, but we've got to look at Social Security and Medicare and do some things now that won't hurt anybody badly but will save it for the next generation.


 Yes, the military, the security of our people, first and foremost, always, our infrastructure, which is coming apart, and research and development, which is going to help us solve some of the problems in the future as far as energy and a lot of other issues. But I want to take a chance on telling the truth to the American people. Our entitlement programs, about 20 or 40 or so, are going to eat up our entire budget. Now, we'll go all day and nobody else will talk about that obvious problem we've got that we've got to address. The thing about it is we can do it now without hurting those programs, with actually strengthening those programs so that our kids and grandkids have them. I don't think we as American people are so selfish that we're going to put this off the table, kick the can down the road, and let everybody else solve that problem, you know, when our grandkids get to be working age. That's not America. That's not what makes us strong. And specifically as far as Medicare is concerned, we need to tell people in Warren Buffet's category, we're not going to take care of your Medicare in the future, we can't afford it.


 My goal is to get in the Mitt Romney situation where I don't have to worry about taxes anymore.

(Laughter)


 You're getting to be a pretty good actor actually.

(Laughter)


 Five percent of Americans pay over half the income taxes in this country. Forty percent of Americans pay no income taxes at all. I think we need to concentrate on preserving the tax cuts of '01 and '03. That's going to be a monumental battle that's coming at the end of 2010.


 Well, I think free trade and fair trade has been the backbone of our economy. I think it's been just as good for us as it has Mexico. In fact, I think Mexico needs to think about that when they criticize us for trying to enforce our border. They export more – send more people out of the country every year than we do, in terms of illegal aliens. So it's been a good thing for both countries. It's a long, complex document. I have nothing in particular to point out. I just think we need to make a commitment to free and fair trade and enforce the agreements that we've got. The problem is too many people close their markets to us. They want trade with us but they want to place undue restrictions to our manufacturers and our farmers. We can't stand for that.


 On all these issues, I've been a strong, consistent, common-sense conservative. Butt he most important issue facing our country and will be for a long time, is national security and the safety of our people. I've spent a long time traveling both in and out of government, traveling, talking to foreign leaders, dealing with these issues. I know the world we live in. I think I know what we need to do. I think that it's going to require strong leadership. And I would ask people to think one thing before they cast a vote. When our worst enemy is sitting down at the negotiating table thinking about what he can do to the United States of America, who do you want sitting on our side of the table representing you? That's probably the guy you ought to elect President.


 I'm not doing hand shows today.


 Well, do you want to give me a minute to answer that?


 Well, then I'm not going to answer it.

(Laughter and applause)


 How about a show of hands?


 I agree with Alan Keyes' position on global warming.

(Laughter)


 The question was what's the biggest impediment to education?


 The biggest obstacle, in my opinion, is the National Education Association, the NEA. I read time and time again every time someone wants to inject a little choice into the equation for the benefit of the kids, inject a little freedom, inject a little competition, because we're not exactly doing that well because of the things that you pointed out earlier, the NEA is there to oppose it and bring in millions and millions of dollars to go on television and work and scare people and misrepresent the situation on the ground. I think that that just goes against everything that we know that can make progress in this country. We're a nation of freedom and innovation and choice. And well-to-do people are out in the suburbs. They don't seem to care that much. Inner-city people need a chance to enjoy the choice that the Mayor's talking about for colleges and universities. Other people have a choice too. If they're wealthy enough to move into a neighborhood because they want their kids to go to school there, let's give it to everybody else and let's stop people from standing in the way of that.


 Well, it wouldn't take me a year. I'd go before the American people and tell them the truth and try to establish my credibility and tell ‘em that we haven't come to terms, yet, with the nature of the threat that we're facing or what we're going to have to do to defend ourselves over the years. I'd tell them that if they didn't' already know it, we're bankrupting the next generation and nobody even wants to talk about it, much less do anything about it. I'd tell them that judges are setting our social policy no win this country, and that's going to stop. And then I'd bring in members of Congress and say, look, I just got a mandate. We can work and cooperate together, or I'll go over your head to the American people.


 Well, that's probably the most important question that's been asked today. We have a real problem with our intelligence community. It, along with certain parts of our military, were neglected for a long, long time in this country, and we're paying the price for it now. The fact is nobody has any real confidence in the result that they're getting. The result you're talking about was directly contradicted by their strong beliefs just two years ago. So, you've got to rebuild from the bottom up. I think that in the meantime, we have to rely on other people. The British are helpful to us. The Israelis sometimes are helpful to us.


 In many respects, they have advancements that we don't have in terms of our intelligence capabilities, but the president cannot – 


 \-- let a piece of paper by a bureaucrat determine – solely determine what his actions must be.


 The least we can do is look at our social policies and not just be concerned about the consuming of what's before us in the short view but what's best for the overall country, what's best for the future generations of the nation, and are we going to leave this place a better place than when we came into it. To me, that's real patriotism.


 Yeah, it'd be for myself, try to be a better man. Be strong, have faith, try to be a better husband and father.


 In the first place, I never said that I was cutting Social Security. What I suggested with regard to Social Security…


 Let me tell you what I propose. It takes a moment, and I have the only plan having to do with Social Security of anyone at the table, number one.

Everyone says it's a big problem; nobody puts anything on the table to do
anything about it.

I've suggested that it's going bankrupt. I mean, the alternative with regard
to Social Security is losing Social Security as we know it. So it's a plan to
save Social Security.

It would do two things: allow people to set up an individual retirement
account where the government would match their funds.

The average guy at the end of their working life would have a few hundred
thousand dollars, and it would save government money in the process, if you
did one other thing, and that is index initial retirement benefits to
inflation, instead of to wages, as they are now.

We're promising future retirees something we can't possibly deliver. We're
promising future retirees more benefits than what current and past retirees
have gotten. My plan would not affect current retirees or those near
retirement.


 No, no, you've got it backwards. 


 No, no, no, if you'll give me a moment. They currently index the wages. I'm suggesting they be indexed to inflation. You'd keep the cost of living increase, but you wouldn't increase it as much as what we're promising in the future. The increase would not be as much…


 … as what we're promising in the future, which we cannot deliver, number one. Ask any expert in town, and they'll tell you that. Nobody likes to talk about it, but that's the fact.

Now, what you would do at the end of the day is actuarially you would make the
Social Security plan sound and you'd save about $4.7 trillion over a period.


 Well, what -- you fight them. You take the case to the American people.

I think that a president's got to be willing to go over the heads of the
Democrats and be able to look into the camera, tell the American people what
the situation is, and suggest what we've got to do about it.

That's one of the things we're lacking in Washington, D.C., I think. Nobody
has any credibility. Nobody can make the case, apparently, to the American
people with regard to the things that we need to do. And that's one of them.


 The initial benefit, the cost of living increase after you retire would increase just the way it always has.


 I'm suggesting they, of course, get the same thing that current retirees are getting. Let's make that clear.


 You're going to get rid of death?


 We're together on that.


 It didn't work very well.


 Well, I like certain elements of it. I like the fact that it's moving toward reform and it's simplified.

I'm a little bit concerned that we would wind up with a consumption type tax
and an income tax later on. You'd have to have a constitutional amendment to
make sure that that did not happen, and that's unlikely.

I think that we ought to move toward a flatter tax. That's why I proposed a
move in the right direction toward reform, something that can actually get
passed, unlike a lot of the things that we wish would happen that never will.

I think that a person ought to be able to fill out their taxes the way that
they traditionally do, if they want to, or have an alternative along the lines
of the House Republican plan that's been tested and it's revenue neutral that
would say basically this: if you have an income of $100,000 or less as a
couple, $50,000 as an individual, you're at a 10 percent bracket and if you
have over that, you're at a 25 percent bracket, and that's it. And you get a
personal deduction, but that's it, and you could have your choice.

Now, that would be a major move. I think we would see a lot of people move
toward that and it would be a major step toward substantial tax reform, which,
of course, is necessary.

I mean, we've got a 66,000-page monstrosity now that makes us very
competitive. It's the most complicated in the world. And as Rudy says, he's
apparently read my plan, put out a couple of months ago, about the corporate
tax rate, makes it very…


 Well, you know, we're all talking about change now. We had some folks vote in Iowa. Then everybody came out of there now talking about change.

Change has been a part of every election since the dawn of elections, if you
weren't an incumbent.

I think that what is more important is leadership. And what's more important,
as a part of leadership, is telling the American people the truth and having
the courage to do that.

Telling the American people -- for example, we were talking about Social
Security, something everybody knows, but nobody wants to talk about, that the
war is going to be protracted, probably, it's going to take some time and more
resources than we've been devoting as a percentage of our economy, that we're
not going to be energy independent in a few years.

It's going to take a longer time. We're going to have to move that big
battleship as much as we can in as short period of time as we can, but it's
not around the corner, that we're spending our next generation's money, and
we're bankrupting them, in many respects, as far as our entitlement programs
are concerned.

Those are truths. We're going to have to go to the American people and say,
"Here's the deal. Here's what we need to do. Let's do what generations have
done in times past: Come together. Do the right thing."

That's the change that we need. I wish we could change to that.


 Are you going to make us -- put us in a position where we're on offense against Islamic terrorism?

So, change is a slogan. And the examination has to be, is a change for good or
is it change for bad.


 Let me think about it.

(LAUGHTER)

Well, it's kind of interesting. My friend Mitt thinks expertise is important
in all areas except national security. And of course, it is more important
nowadays than it's ever been before.

These are different times. We face different kinds of enemies, a more
protracted conflict from radical Islam than a lot of people probably realize
and any of us would hope was the case, but it is. And it's important that we
understand the world we live in.

I'm not sure it has to do with a number of countries. I could add my countries
to the list, and Pakistan of course and that part of the world and others. But
-- and I was on the Intelligence Committee, and I've met with our CIA officers
in small soundproof rooms and faraway places, talking about what was going on
in that particular country.

I was a Republican floor manager for the Homeland Security bill, which I like
to think has helped somewhat us not have another 9/11. I was chairman of the
Government Affairs Committee, which has proliferation jurisdiction, among a
lot of other things.

So I think it is valuable.

I disagree with my friend Mike here, not from missteps, which everyone can
make, but when thinking of the first thing to say, or one of the main things
to say with regard to our foreign policy, is that it's arrogant and he's
concerned about the attitude of the rest of the world. Closing down Guantanamo
because people will think better of us and bring those people apparently here
which, would give them rights that they don't have there and become a part of
our judicial system, and lifting the embargo on Castro, and things like that,
I simply disagree in terms of a view of the world and the kind of world that
we live in.

And finally, I'd say that on the issue of endorsement, I'm not sure what
you're referring to about the Clintons, but wasn't it Ted Kennedy at your bill
signing ceremony for your health care plan? Didn't he endorse that?

(CROSSTALK)


 OK. I'll rest my case on health care.


 They get certain rights if they come here. They could get habeas corpus rights, being physically here, that they wouldn't otherwise get if they were in Guantanamo.


 As they are in Guantanamo. I mean, that's the assumption that they will be there.


 If they're going to be brought here…


 That's not the situation. It would be different if they were in Guantanamo -- I mean, if they were in Leavenworth.


 Can I add my friend Governor Huckabee to that list?


 I couldn't have said it better. And I guess I did, didn't I?


 Well, my friends here on both sides, really, had policies that basically were, if you make it in you're kind of home free. And in large part it was based on compassion. And there's been a lot of talk, rightfully so, in terms of children.

My concern is what we're saying to the other parents and children that are in
Mexico, for example, now. Are we encouraging our policies, encouraging the
next generation of people to take the risk of going across the border and
being killed or being raped or being herded into the back of a van or
something like that to try to make it across the border?


 It's not good for them. It's not good for our country. We can't be dependent upon the next generation or another 12 million of illegals, as the governor says, living in the shadows with less education, many of whom do not speak the language, in a time when our entitlement programs are already overburdened, at a time when people are talking about disparities of economic conditions, and the fact that education plays a large part in that.

It's not good for our country; it's not good for them.

And when I hear a president of Mexico chide us for enforcing the border, you
know, I would say to him: What does it say about the leadership of a country
when the exportation of their own citizens is an economic necessity? They need
to look at home at their own policy.

We're engaging in trade with them. We're doing some good things with Mexico.
We're doing some work in the illegal drug and gang area that's a good
cooperative effort.

I think that our trade agreements have been a net benefit for both countries,
really. But we have to look out for the long-term best interest of our
country, which I think happens to be in the long- term best interest of the
people of his country.


 Remember "Almost Persuaded"?


 If John Wayne was here, I'd have him beat him up.


 Politically, I think I am the only one here who has never lost an election. I haven't run that many, but I have carried a state with 20 points twice and a state that Bill Clinton carried twice. The last time I ran, I received the largest number of votes of any person running for office in the history of Tennessee.

Substantively, I, for eight years, fought for strong national security. I
talked about my background a little bit earlier.

I fought for five major tax cuts. We balanced the budget four times, fought
for good, strong conservative judges who would follow the law instead of
making it up as they go along, and had 100 percent pro-life voting record.

I think the president has to have credibility and the courage to speak the
truth to the American people. Occasionally, I had a 90-1 vote in the Senate
where I was the only one.

I am interested in the future of my country and the kind of world my children
and grandchildren are going to grow up in. It's not for a personal
aggrandizement. For me, I think better days are ahead of us if we, the
American people, do our primary duty, and that is leave this place a little
better than what we found it.

I am determined and committed to do that. And I can provide the leadership to
do that with credibility in the eyes of the American people.


 First of all, I need to defend Rudy a little bit on his tax plan, because it looks an awful lot like the one I put out a couple of months ago. 

So the government never loses as much revenue as the experts say we're going
to. With the '01 and '03 tax cuts in place, we received more revenue into the
government in one day in April of this year than ever before in the history of
the country.

So much for the experts, as far as that's concerned. It does stimulate growth
and it's overall beneficial for the economy.

Unemployment is up to five percent. That used to be considered full
employment, but we're going in the wrong direction with regard to that. It's
not just the subprime market now. It's poured over into the general housing
market.

Credit is scarce. It's affected the consumer credit market in general. If
you're talking about automobile loans or you're talking about credit card
thieves or anything like that, the money is getting tighter and tighter.

We still have a bunch of two-handed economists in Washington. On the one hand,
we may go into recession, and, on the other hand, we may not. Nobody knows.
But I think that as we proceed, we need to count on the fed doing the right
thing in terms of the interest rates and we need to look seriously at whether
or not we should do things such as speed up depreciation schedules for
businesses, those that create jobs, have a deduction for capital expenses
instead of having to capitalize them, things of that nature.

We had a stimulus package back in '01. It's targeted toward the lower income
people. I think that has to be considered somewhere along the line if the
economy calls for it, not today, but perhaps a little later on.

But we have to keep in mind a great many lower income people don't pay income
taxes to start with. So an income tax rebate like we've tried before would not
work.

We would all be a lot better off if people knew that these tax cuts of '01 and
'03 were not going to expire at the end of 2010, which they're scheduled to
do.


 Can I answer that? 


 Well, it's not a response. I mean, you asked a minute or a minute-and-a-half question of these gentlemen on the Reagan revolution. Could I address that? 


 It's an important issue, because I think it demonstrates what we're about here today. I think that Governor Huckabee's campaign manager said it accurately in terms of what they believe. They believe that it is over. 

This is a battle for the heart and soul of the Republican Party and its
future. On the one hand, you have the Reagan revolution. You have the Reagan
coalition of limited government and strong national security.

On the other hand, you have the direction that Governor Huckabee would take us
in. He would be a Christian leader, but he would also bring about liberal
economic policies, liberal foreign policies.


 He believes we have an arrogant foreign policy and the tradition of, blame America first. 

He believes that Guantanamo should be closed down and those enemy combatants
brought here to the United States to find their way into the court system
eventually.

He believes in taxpayer-funded programs for illegals, as he did in Arkansas.

He has the endorsement of the National Education Association, and the NEA said
it was because of his opposition to vouchers.

He said he would sign a bill that would ban smoking nationwide. So much for
federalism. So much for states' rights. So much for individual rights.

That's not the model of the Reagan coalition, that's the model of the
Democratic Party.


 I know the feeling. 


 Yes, I think so. I think I agree with the governor on that. You can't take the judgment like that out of the hands of the officers on the ground there. I think one more step and they would have been introduced to those virgins that they're looking forward to seeing. 

(LAUGHTER)

Iran was clearly testing us. They took British hostages under similar
circumstances and it proceeded obviously much past what happened to us, but
they're testing our resolve. They know that they're dealing with a nation
that's not going to put up with that sort of thing. But it's some insight as
to the way that they're thinking.

I think the Revolutionary Guard now has taken over from the regular military
force with regard to those speedboats and so forth, so they're going to get a
little more frisky. But they need to understand that if they cross the line,
they're going to be destroyed.


 Oh, my goodness, go against the poll? 

(LAUGHTER)

How could anybody ever do that? In the first place, you can tell that the news
is good coming out of Iraq because you read so little about it in the New York
Times.

(APPLAUSE)

We have different interests as far as Pakistan is concerned. It's a very
important nation to us in many respects.

I had the opportunity, with others, to visit with President Musharraf some few
years ago, visit Pakistan and Afghanistan and that region. Democracy of
Pakistan is in the long-term security interest of Pakistan and, therefore,
it's in our interest.

They were moving in that direction before Prime Minister Bhutto was
assassinated. Now they're in the streets. The government is in question. Some
of our people, I think, are irresponsibly calling for Musharraf's resignation,
cutting off of aid and all those things.

There's one little problem with that -- who you're going to get in return.
They're the only Muslim nation in the world that has nuclear weapons and a
nuclear capability. Our national security interest and who's hands those
nuclear weapons are going to be in is an overriding interest of ours.

We need to make sure that there is stability of that country, to the extent
that we can do anything about, and certainly in the short- term, anyway. That
involves supporting Musharraf, while we continue to encourage him not only to
move toward democracy, put those judges back in place that he fired, those
dissidents that are in only for political reasons he needs to release, and he
needs to help us more in the western mountains of Afghanistan where the
Taliban is still hiding and where Osama Bin Laden probably is.

We need to put the pressure on him, keep the pressure on him, but let's not
ever kid ourselves.


 Our national security interests require that those nuclear weapons do not fall into the hands of radicals in Pakistan. 


 Governor Huckabee, if I understood him correctly, seemed to be concerned that part of the money we're sending to Pakistan goes to their own military. That's the point. We help train their military. Their new top general over there was trained here in the United States for a period of time. 

They have lost several people fighting the Taliban. That's who they would
fight the Taliban with, is their military. So our cooperation with their
military, our supporting their military, is a good thing.


 Well, first of all, I know the governor is pointing out that he signed the tax pledge. Earlier this year on Tim Russert's show, on another network, he said it'd be a dangerous thing to make a tax pledge because you couldn't foresee what was going to happen in the future. 

Well, what happened in the future was that, later on that year, when the
pressure got building, he signed the tax pledge.

No, I don't think so. I like to think of my own record. I pointed out several
points of the governor's record, and what he has done, and what he has said.

But we were able to go to Washington in 1995, and we passed five major tax
bills; we passed welfare reform; we've passed a balanced budget for four years
in a row.

We were able to do some headway, make some good with President Clinton even
with regard to sound, conservative judges. And I compiled 100 percent pro-life
voting record during that time. And that's why the National Right to Life
folks and the South Carolina Right to Life folks have endorsed me in my
candidacy here.

So I like to feel like we did do some good. I certainly didn't do it single-
handedly.

But, yes, you can be a part of something good in Congress if you work hard and
the voters respond to your conservative message. We took a sound, conservative
message to the American people at that time, the respect for the rule of law,
a market economy, and a nation that doesn't tax and spend you to death, and a
nation where a country boy from Tennessee or a country girl from South
Carolina can grow up and, if they obey by the rules -- abide by the rules,
expect to achieve the American dream.

That's what we presented. They responded to us. And we were able to do some
good things then.

As chief executive, as president of this country, we could do a lot more good
things. And that's why I'm running for president.


 You can't look at them individually. We need to be a nation of high fences and wide gates, and we get to decide when to open the gate and when to close it. 

(APPLAUSE)

I believe with all my heart that if we enforce the border, if we crack down on
employers who knowingly hired illegal immigrants, and required them to use the
modern technology that we have now so that they can, in effect, push a button
on the front end and find out whether or not someone is legal, and if we put
an end to sanctuary cities, where local governments are, in effect, telling
their people they can't cooperate with federal authorities with regard to
illegal immigrants, and we would do that by telling the sanctuary cities, "If
you continue that, we cut off discretionary federal funding to those sanctuary
cities," if we did those things, we would have enforcement by attrition.

We would reverse the process that we're going in now. It's not just 12 million
people. We have to be concerned about another 12 million people.

I disagree with my friend, John McCain, on the bill that they proposed last
year. I disagree with my friend, Governor Huckabee, when he supported in-state
tuition for illegal immigrants, when he fought the legislature when they tried
to impose verification requirements before a person could vote so you could
determine they were an American citizen.

I think that we have got to enforce the border, crack down on employers who
knowingly hire illegal immigration, and stop sanctuary cities and policies
that encourage people to continue across the border while we claim to be
trying to enforce the border.


 There is no question that the al-Maliki government needs to step up and do what is right. The United States government has been there for four years. We've lost many individuals -- 3,400 individuals as of today, and it's time for the al-Maliki to vote whether or not they want us in the fifth year to stay in their country or whether or not they want us to go home. 

Secondly, if in fact they do allow the 18 territories, which, geographically
defined, allow them to elect their leaders like we elect the 50 governors and
50 legislatures in the United States, they will elect individuals that they
would feel -- are comfortable with them, that they are -- feel that they have
a stake in their government.

And if you split the oil revenues -- one-third to the federal government, one-
third to the territories, and one-third to every man, woman and child -- every
man, woman and child will feel they have a stake in their government, stake in
their country, and they'll start using that money for peace and for building
businesses and making sure they build their country. That's why my plan will
work, and it will win the peace in Iraq.


 Well, first off, you've got to realize where I come from. I'm the only candidate up here that has over 1,900 vetoes. I've had more vetoes than all of the candidates on the both the Republican and Democratic side. I've reduced taxes by 16-and-a-half billion dollars when I was governor of the state of Wisconsin, and I've reduced spending. And I also cut taxes wherever I possibly could. 

There are several programs that need to be cut in Washington, several of those
in my former department. I would first make every agency come in with a budget
at 95 percent of last year's budget and one at 100 percent.

And you will be able to use that category and that exercise in order to reduce
budgets all across the line. There are many ways to do it, and there are so
many programs that need to be reduced and eliminated; because what happens in
Washington, Wendell, is that programs get started, nobody ever supervises
those or looks at them and tries to find ways to eliminate them. But there are
many departments that could absolutely have programs that could be eliminated.


 Well, the first one I would eliminate is a program in the Department of Health and Human Services in CDC that deals with the stockpile. The stockpile does a great job, but there are some inefficiencies there that we're able to make some efficiencies and make some changes in that would eliminate that program. 


 Well first, embryonic stem cells, as well as adult stem cells, show great promise for all Americans. Embryonic stem cells was started at the University of Wisconsin at Madison. In embryonic stem cells, the policy that was announced by the president on August 9th set forth about 72 lines that could be federally funded and could be used for research and still receive the federal funds. 


 Well, there's not that many. There's 22 being used. There's at least three more that have not been used. Some of them were not able to be viable, some of them were not able to have what we call pluripotency, and so they were not able to continue. 

But there is some tremendous new research, Wendell, going on on amniotic
fluids by a Dr. Campbell. There's also some new research going on at the
University of Wisconsin that says adult stem cells, if you do it the right
way, will have the same characteristics as embryonic stem cells.

So until this research is done, we do not have to destroy any more embryos.
There's enough lines right now and capable, with this other research going on,
that embryonic stem cells, along with adult stem cells, cord blood and
amniotic fluid, can continue.


 I would do the first thing that President Ronald Reagan would say: Trust but verify. 

Verify that that information is correct. And I would go in with all the power
necessary. Colin Powell said, and I quote him, he says, "If in fact you're
going to war, have a reason to go to war. Make sure you go with all the force
necessary in order to do so, and have an exit strategy."

If there's a country in Africa that is not friendly to America, that is anti-
America and is promoting terrorism, and those terrorists are going to attack,
it's -- be incumbent on all of us to make sure that we do what is right. The
president of the United States has got to lead that effort, and if it's
necessary, it's got to take those camps out as deliberately and as
methodically as possible, as long as that information is credible and can be
checked and make sure that it is accurate.


 Thank you. 


 Thank you. 


 I think there is no reason to believe that we're headed for a recession. We're enjoying 22 quarters of successive economic growth that started in 2001, and then further in 2003 with the tax cuts that we put in place. We're enjoying low inflation. We're enjoying low unemployment. The stock market seems to be doing pretty well. I see no reason to believe we're headed for -- (pause) -- for economic downturn. 

As far as the economic prosperity of the future is concerned, I think it's a
different story. I think if you look at the short term, it's rosy. I think if
you look at a 10-year projection, it's rosy. But we are spending money we do
not have.

We are on a mandatory spending lockdown that is pushing us in a direction that
is unsustainable. We're spending the money of future generations and those yet
to be born. That has to do with our mandatory spending problem. Everyone knows
that we have to address that, and it's the fundamental and foremost challenge,
I think, facing our country economically.


 Well, I think there are pockets in the economy. Certainly they're having difficulty. I think there are certainly those in Michigan that are having difficulty. I think you always find that in a vibrant, dynamic economy. I think that not enough has been done to tell what some call the greatest story never told, and that is that we are enjoying a period of growth right now, and we should acknowledge what got us there and continue those same policies on into the future. 


 Yeah. Free and fair trade has been good for America, responsible for millions of jobs in this country. We cannot turn our back on that. 

I was one of the strictest advocates of imposing restrictions on the Chinese
for their behavior in terms of exporting dangerous materials to other
countries and tying some of our trade policies to what they did in that
regard. They have still not done enough. They have devalued their currency,
which puts them in a favored position as far as our manufacturers are
concerned.

But in terms of turning our back on free trade, that's not the direction to go
in. It's meant too much for our country, and every country in the history of
the world that's ever turned its back on free trade has suffered for it as a
consequence.


 (Off mike.) 


 The answer is yes. Dubai would own 20 percent of NASDAQ, but NASDAQ, under this deal, as I understand it, would gain more than 30 percent of the Dubai company. 

It all depends on national security issues. Doesn't seem to be one there. But
we should look at all these deals carefully because we have a vast
infrastructure. The great portion of it is in private hands. There's no way,
frankly, we can protect it all. So we need to do everything that we can to
make sure that we're doing all that we can to protect the infrastructure we've
got and scrutinize these deals, number one, first and foremost, from a
national security standpoint.


 Well, in the first place, I don't buy the concept that any reduction in taxes is lost revenue to the government. The taxpayers haven't lost it. It's in their pocket. They know exactly where to find it. 

We shouldn't confuse the wealth of government with the wealth of nations. Just
because the money is sent to Washington doesn't mean that people are any
richer. In fact, just the opposite is the case.

As you pointed out, the AMT was designed for the -- to target the rich guy.
And when the Democrats start targeting the rich guy, if you're a middle-class
guy you ought to run to the other side of the house because you're going to
get hit. They're not going to be on target. And this is another one of those
cases; you point out we're going from about 4 million people covered now to
over -- over 20 million people.

What we're going to have to do, though, is look at this as part of a total
picture. Generally speaking, lower taxes and lower tax rates grow the economy.
It's been proven in the '20s, it was proven during the Kennedy administration,
proven during the Reagan administration and again during this administration.
I would apply that same principle to the AMT. It ought to be phased out. I
think the responsible thing to do, though, until we get a handle on our
mandatory spending side of the ledger, is to index it for inflation and fix it
for another year while we look at the budget in total.


 I think the policy that we're engaged in now is the right one. Clearly, to me, we didn't go in with enough troops and we didn't know what to expect when we got there. But now we're showing signs of progress. I think we got to take advantage of the opportunities that we have there, now that we see a window of opportunity for things to turn around and us to stabilize that place and not to have to leave with our tail between our legs. If we did that, it would make for a more dangerous United States of America. 

I think we've got to come to terms with the nature of the threat that our
country faces. It is a global war. Islamic fascism has declared it upon us.
They look at it as something that's something that's been going on for a long,
long time. They're perfectly willing for it to go on for a long time more,
killing millions of innocent people in the process. They play by no rules, and
they are intent on bringing down Western civilization and the United States of
America. So we have to understand what's necessary and the determination that
we need to show to friend and foe alike that we'll do what's necessary to
fight on any front that we have to fight on. This is a front in a much broader
war, and I think the young people that I talk to coming back from there
understand that. In fact, sometimes it's strange to me to think that the
average 20-year-old serving us in Iraq knows more about what it takes for our
national security than the average 20-year veteran on Capitol Hill.


 No, no. 


 No, I didn't say that. I was just stating what was obvious, and that is that Saddam had had them prior. They used them -- they used them against his own people, against the Kurds. 


 And of course, he had a nuclear reactor back -- I believe it was in '81 when the Israelis bombed that. And the Iraqi Study Group reported that he had designs on reviving his nuclear program, which he had started once upon a time. 

So there's not question that he had had them in times past. And in my own
estimation, there's no question that if left to his own devices, he and his
son would still be running that place, attacking their neighbors and murdering
their own people and developing a nuclear capability, especially in looking at
what Iran is doing as their next-door neighbor and long-time adversary. And
the whole place would be nuclearized.

Saudi Arabia would probably respond to that; other Sunni nations would respond
to it. And you would have an entirely nuclearized part of the world that we
don't have now. That would be extremely problematic for us from an oil
standpoint, as well as a global stability standpoint.


 On this question? Yes, I think that -- I think John has it right. 

I would add that under the War Powers Act there's always a conflict between
the Congress and the president as to the exact applicability of that when an
engagement lasts for a particular period of time and when they must come
before Congress. I don't think anybody running for president should diminish
the powers of the office before he gets there and take side in a hypothetical
dispute.

But I would say that in any close call, you should go to Congress, whether
it's legally required or not, because you're going to need the American
people, and Congress will help you. If they are voting for it or they support
it, or leaders, especially in the opposite party, are convinced in looking at
the evidence that this is the right thing to do, that will help you with the
American people. And we have learned that over the long term, in any conflict,
we've got to have the strong support of the American people over a protracted
period of time.


 First I want you to explain for my friends here who Goober and Gomer are. (Laughter.) 

Excuse me.


 I think we need to tell the American people the truth. 

Congress's approval rating now is about 11 percent. I don't people -- I don't
think anybody believes anything coming out of Washington anymore.

I think we need to tell them the truth, that our security is on the line, that
our economy is on the line, that our prosperity is on the line. We're going to
have to do some things differently. We're probably going to have to spend more
than four percent of our budget, as we're spending right now, on our military.
We are bankrupting the next generation and those yet to be born.

Those are truthful things that the American people, I think, have an intuition
about. We need to own up to it. It's not all gloom and doom. We want to live
in a world and a country that's free -- free markets.

People accept responsibility. People who play by the rules and work hard can
expect to live the American dream. If they need help in this country, they get
help. And those who can help themselves are expected to do so.


 Yeah. Well, you've hit on a major problem that we've got to come to terms with. We're looking at the short-term economic situation now, and I think it's very good news, but if you go out a little bit, you will see that we're not going to have Social Security and Medicare as we know it into the future. Our children and our grandchildren certainly are not. We are eating our seed corn. We are spending their money. We're pitting one generation against the next. We're better than that. We've got to do some things better than that, even though the choices are difficult. 

Number one, we've got to make sure we have a growing economy. That means low
taxes. That means less regulation. That means sound fiscal policies. That
means less spending on the discretionary side. Our bridges and our
infrastructure and things of that nature -- our national parks have got to be
taken care of. But mainly, we have to let people provide for some of their own
savings for their retirement while they're still working.

And then lastly, one of the other things that could be done would be to index
benefits to inflation, index benefits to inflation for future retirees. It
would not affect current or near-retirement people.

But for future retirees, instead of having nothing, which is what they're
headed for under the current situation that's unsustainable, they would have
protection, but it would be indexed to inflation instead of wages as it is
today. And it would solve the problem for several years. It wouldn't solve it
indefinitely, but it would give us a window of opportunity to get our arms
around the problem, it would be a major step in the right direction.


 I don't have to pretend that I'm a union member because I have been a union member some time -- the Screen Actors Guild still counts, doesn't it? (Laughter.) 


 All right. 

No, I believe in the rights of workers to band together for their own
purposes, no question about that. I do not believe a person ought to have to
be a member of the union to work. I do not believe that union bosses ought to
use union dues for political purposes that their members don't necessarily
agree with, and I do not agree with them denying union members a secret
ballot. But other than that, I think that they've done a lot of good over the
years for this country and will continue to do so.


 No. 


 Well, I think the government has to have a good reason to step in. I think it has to be something that drastically affects our economy. It might a little bit later on -- you'd have to cross that bridge when you came to it -- as something that affects our economy or our national security. 

But I don't think the government ought to step in and have people know that
the government will step in if they walk out an create that kind of situation.


 Well, of course, they are. But that has nothing to do with the government stepping in. The government ought to relieve that disdavantage that we've got as far as foreign automakers are concerned, make them open up their markets and make certain markets quit devaluing their currency. That's where the pressure needs to be applied. 


 Well, then that's your opinion, Christopher. (Laughter.) 


 Dangers of a weak dollar is that it will damage us internationally. We've got to have a strong dollar because of the creditors that we have there. It helps our exports to a certain extent now, and we're enjoying that part of it. 

But any president of the United States has to stand behind a strong dollar.
The whole world needs to know that we are good for our obligations.


 And to think I thought I was going to be the best actor on the stage. (Laughter.) 


 Harper. 


 Prime Minister Harper. 


 Well, I've never met him, but our relationship is fine. (Laughter.) 


 Well, our friends ought to get plenty of attention. I mean, the challenges that we're going to face internationally, especially in the future, are going to require our working better with our allies and realizing, for example, that in the global war on terror, this is a (fight ?) by the forces of civilization against the bad guys. And everybody's got a stake in it, whether they realize it or not. 

So, certainly we ought to work with Canada economically. We -- we -- we get
more oil from them, I guess, than anybody. And they have more potential oil to
sell than an awful lot of people. So they're important economically, and all
of our allies are important for our national security.


 Just like home. (Laughter.) I didn't say which kind of home. 


 No, I don't think I waited too long. It seems about right to me. (Laughter.) I've enjoyed -- 


 I've enjoyed watching these fellas. I've got to admit, it was getting a little boring without me, but -- (laughter) -- I'm glad to be here now. 




 My name is Thompson, Tommy. I'm the candidate, not the actor. (Laughter.) 

I was governor for 14 years and secretary for Health and Human Services in
Bush's Cabinet.


 The first thing the president should do is demand the al-Maliki government to vote as to whether or not they want the United States to stay in Iraq. We've been there four years. Give the government the responsibility of voting. If they vote yes, how are they going to help us win this war? And if they vote no, we should redeploy our forces outside. 

Secondly, there are 18 territories in Iraq, geographically defined. Those 18
territories, just like 50 states in America, should elect their state leaders.
And if they do so, the Shi'ites will elect Shi'ites, Sunnis will elect Sunnis,
Kurds will elect Kurds. And you know something? People will go to those
particular territories and you get rid of the civil war, internecine.

Number three -


 \- I would like to have the oil revenue proceeds - very quickly - 


 \- oil revenue proceeds split: one third to the federal government, one third to the states, and one third to every man woman and child, and that will get everybody a stake in their country. 


 Wolf, the first thing you have to do is you got to secure the border. 


 Securing the border is going to allow everything else to follow. But unless you secure the border, it is not right to give 12 million individuals who have illegal rights into this country status before that border is protected. There should be no amnesty. And this bill, no matter how you cover it, is an amnesty bill. And the people in this country do not believe in that bill, and they believe very much that the best hope for us is to have a secure border, just like Congressman Hunter has been talking about - 


 \- and every other Republican up here; have a secure border, then move on, but don't do it the other way. 


 I think that anybody with the Thompson name should get involved if they want to get involved. It's a great name, he's a great candidate, and I think it will help the Republican Party to have him in. 

I just would like to say that if you're talking about conservatism - and
that's what you're talking about - there isn't a candidate on either side of
the aisle that has had as many vetoes as I have. Nobody has reduced taxes as
much as I have. And if you're talking about a reliable conservative, it is
THIS Thompson - Tommy Thompson, not the actor -


 \- that's the conservative. (Laughter.) 


 I certainly would not send him to the United Nations. (Laughter.) 

I believe George W. Bush has tremendous characteristics. He's very honest,
he's very straightforward. I would put him out on a lecture series talking to
the youth of America about honesty, integrity, perseverance, passion, and
serving the public. George W. Bush believes very much in public service, as
does his father, as does his brothers, as does his mother. I think he could be
a wonderful spokesperson making sure that young people realize that public
service is a very noble cause and something that young people should aspire
here, like all the young people here on this campus should also have the
opportunity to serve in public life.


 Bill Clinton committed perjury in a grand jury - lost his law license. Scooter Libby got 30 months. To me, it's not fair at all. But I would make sure the appeal was done properly, and then I would examine the record. 


 You know, I've been here for two debates. We never had one question on health care. Thank that person for talking about health care. 

Number one, we spend $2 trillion on health care; that's 16 percent of the
gross national product. Ninety-three percent of the cost of health care goes
into waiting until after you become sick. Only 7 percent of the money is used
to keep you well in the first place. We got to completely transform the health
care system, make it a wellness system, and make it a prevention system.

Secondly, we have 125 million Americans that have one or more chronic
illnesses. In order to change this we have to educate the American people
about tobacco, about diabetes, about cardiovascular and about obesity. You do
that, you'll be able to change health care.

The third thing, 25 percent of Americans use two-thirds of the cost of health
care. If you manage those diseases, you can reduce that down to 50 percent and
save lots of money.

Fourth, information technology - electronic medical records, a patient bill of
rights, and be able to have ePrescribing, and if you do that, you're going to
be able to save billions of dollars. If you just go paperless, ladies and
gentlemen, you will save 10 percent of the cost of health care.


 Because we went to Washington to change Washington and Washington changed us. We didn't come up with new ideas. We got to transform health care. We got to wind - we got to wind down the war in Iraq. We got to make sure that we really are conservatives. 

If we're going to spend money like - as foolishly and as stupidly as the
Democrats, the voters are going to vote for the professional spending, the
Democrat -


 \- not the amateur spender, the Republican. (Laughter, applause.) 


