 Just come home. We just marched in. We can just come back. 

(APPLAUSE)

We went in there illegally. We did not declare war. It's lasting way too long.
We didn't declare war in Korea or Vietnam. The wars were never really ended.
We lose those wars. We're losing this one. We shouldn't be there. We ought to
just come home.

(APPLAUSE)

The number one reason it's in our national self-interest and for our national
security, think of our defenses now, how rundown they are. What is the morale
of our military today when they're sent over there for 12 months and then
they're kept for another three months? They come home and, with less than a
year's rest, they're sent back again. Congress is currently trying to change
the rules so we give these men an adequate rest.

This war is not going well because the foreign policy is defective.


 I, of course, opposed the war a long time before it started. The neoconservatives promoted this war many, many years before it was started. It had nothing to do with Al Qaida. There was no Al Qaida in Iraq. There were no weapons of mass destruction. Just think of the weapons the Soviets had in the '60s and the '70s. And we did not have to go to nuclear war with them. There's no reason to go to war against these men in these Third World nations. At the same time, those individuals who have predicted these disastrous things to happen if we leave Iraq are the same ones who said, "As soon as we go in, it will just be duck soup, it'll be over in three months and it won't cost us anything because the oil will pay for it." 

(APPLAUSE)


 And at the same time... 


 Just a moment—at the same time, the individuals who predicted the disaster, of course, the domino theory, in Vietnam—I was called to duty. I accepted that duty in the '60s. I served five years in the military. When we left there, it was tough, yes. But now we trade with Vietnam. We talk to them. The president's come to this country. We go back and forth. We invest in that country. We can achieve much more in peace than we can ever achieve in these needless, unconstitutional, undeclared wars. 

(APPLAUSE)


 Our responsibility is to spread democracy here, make sure that we have it. This is a philosophic and foreign policy problem, because what the president was saying was just a continuation of Woodrow Wilson's "making the world safe for democracy." There's nothing wrong with spreading our values around the world, but it is wrong to spread it by force. We should spread it by setting an example and going and doing a good job here. Threatening Pakistan and threatening Iran makes no sense whatsoever. We went in—and I supported going after the Al Qaida into Afghanistan—but, lo and behold, the neocons took over. They forgot about Osama bin Laden. And what they did, they went into nation-building, not only in Afghanistan, they went unjustifiably over into Iraq. And that's why we're in this mess today. 


 ... to speak on this.


 I certainly wouldn't support an amendment to change the role of the vice president. But there's no way to know exactly what goes on, but if you take perceptions from Washington, most people there behind the scenes think the vice president is more powerful than the president. Philosophically, I think this is the case. It's obvious that he represents a neoconservative viewpoint. And my objection is that that has been the rejection of the Republican Party platform and traditional conservatism. And I think this is where we have gone astray. We have drifted from our fundamental premises and the conservative values that this party used to get. 

(APPLAUSE)


 The only mistake I made and continue to make is I don't speak forcefully enough for the cause of liberty and the cause of the Constitution. I'm working on it all the time. 

(APPLAUSE)


 I'm afraid I haven't been able to get most of your question. I know you brought up the subject of gay marriage, but I didn't get the point of what you're saying. I can't hear it that well. 


 OK. Well, if you believe in federalism, it's better that we allow these things to be left to the state. My personal belief is that marriage is a religious ceremony. 


 And it should be dealt with religiously. The state really shouldn't be involved. The state, both federal and state-wise, got involved mostly for health reasons 100 years or so ago. 

But this should be a religious matter. All voluntary associations, whether
they're economic or social, should be protected by the law. But to amend the
Constitution is totally unnecessary to define something that's already in the
dictionary.

We do know what marriage is about. We don't need a new definition or argue
over a definition and have an amendment to the Constitution. To me, it just
seems so unnecessary to do that. It's very simply that the states should be
out of that business, and the states -- I mean, the states should be able to
handle this. The federal government should be out of it.

There's no need for the federal government to be involved in this. You can
accomplish this without waiting five or ten or 15 years. The authority can be
put in the states by mere voting in the Congress.

(APPLAUSE)


 Well, we've had managed care, now, for about 35 years. It's not working, and nobody's happy with it. The doctors aren't happy. The patients aren't happy. 


 Nobody seems to be happy -- except the corporations, the drug companies and the HMOs. 

You take care of poor people by turning the medical care back into the system,
where people have some choices.

Now, we have a mess because we have -- a lot of people are very dependent on
health care. But I have the only way we can afford to take care of people now,
because we're going broke, with $500 billion going to debt every single year.
And we have a foreign policy that is draining us.

I say, take care of these poor people. I'm not against that. But save the
money someplace. The only place available for us to save it is to change our
attitude about running a world empire and bankrupting this country. We can
take care of the poor people, save money and actually cut some of our deficit.

So you don't have to throw anybody out in the street, but long term you have
move toward the marketplace. You cannot expect socialized medicine of the
Hillary brand to work.

And you can't expect the managed care system that we have today, which
promotes and benefits and rewards the corporations -- because it's the drug
companies and the HMOs and even the AMA that comes to us and lobbies us for
this managed care, and that's why the prices are high.


 It's only in medicine that technology has raised prices rather than lowering prices. 

(APPLAUSE)


 Well, there's a very big difference, and I think the American people, if we as a party realize this and understand it, 70- some percent of the people in America want the war over with. They're sick and tired of it and they want our troops to come home. 

Now, Senator Clinton has nothing new to offer. She's endorsing the same
policy. She said that the troops would be there for another five years,
continue to build this embassy that's going to be bigger than the Vatican,
continue to build 14 air bases as are going on there, these private bases
going on there, and never change.


 We in this party have to realize the American people are sick and tired of big government, big government overseas, an empire we can't maintain, the bankruptcy of this country, and also the attack on our personal civil liberties. We don't have privacy left anymore, and Hillary Clinton offers no solution to that, and neither does any of the Democrats. And we are not doing a very good job either. 

If we don't recognize that, we don't have a chance because we need to get back
to the basics, believe in the Constitution, believe in the rule of law, and
not allow our government to spend endlessly and bankrupt this country.

(APPLAUSE)


 it's a mess. And it proves that the government is not very good at central economic planning, even for retirement. 


 The money was taken from the people with good intention. We should do our best to return it to those that have taken it. 

But we need to allow the young people to just flat out get out of the system.
Because, I tell you what...

(APPLAUSE)

... if you have the government managing these accounts, it's not going to
work.

And the other thing that you have to consider if you're really serious about
protecting people's incomes, each and every one of us, is how you're going to
protect the dollar. If you don't have the dollar maintaining its value, no
matter where you put the money you're not going to have any value. That's
where the crisis is coming.

You're going to go up with all these cost of living increases but you'll never
keep up with the cost of living because the dollar's going down, the cost of
living is going up.

Our dollar today is worth 4 cents compared to the dollar of 1913, when the
Federal Reserve took charge of it. And if you don't deal with the dollar there
will be no retirement for anybody. We're going to have chaos.

And that is why you have to cut spending. That's why we need a new foreign
policy. We need to tie it to people over here in this country, the people who
are dependent, but we need to let the people get out, whether it's Social
Security or medical care or education. The Constitution doesn't advise that we
do any of that anyway.


 That's the only way we can solve the problem. 

(APPLAUSE)


 This is a -- this is a result of a foreign policy of interventionism. The founders advised non-interventionism. And even our president won the election in the year 2000 to have a more humble foreign policy, not to go into nation-building, and not get involved in the internal affairs of other nations. 

And we won an election on that.

But here we are. We're over there and we've invaded this country and this is
just another unintended consequence. The war is spreading, the war is likely
to go into Iran, nobody's willing to take anything off the table.

What would it be like if somebody came in here into Mexico and did some of
these things -- say, like, putting missiles in Europe? We're just looking for
trouble. It's so unnecessary. And we jeopardize ourselves. And, quite frankly,
we're not able to afford this.

So we don't need to go looking for trouble. We don't need another Cold War.
And all we have to do is start talking to people and trading with people.

We don't need to assume that the world is going to blow up. Just think of...

(AUDIENCE BOOING)


 When I was drafted into the military, and I served five years in the military, the Soviets had 40,000 nuclear weapons. 

And here, we're now learning about agitating and putting missiles in Europe.


 It's the Turks' business. It's not our business. 

(AUDIENCE BOOS)

(APPLAUSE)


 I think in many ways they haven't followed our platform and they don't follow the Constitution. So they're really not following (inaudible). I think in many ways we have become big spenders. Republicans are the big spenders. Our big-government conservatives, they're part of the neo-conservative movement. They've lost their traditions about traditional conservatism and the Constitution. 

We have benefited for so many years and decades by having a position of less
use of force. Eisenhower won his election in 1952 by trying to clean up the
mess that Democrats created in Korea. Nixon won in '68. We continuously won in
taking this position of a more commonsensical foreign policy.

Like I said, even George Bush won criticizing this interventionism, and now
all of a sudden, just in this short period of time, we have accepted the
Democrats' position on foreign policy, on entitlements, on deficits. I mean,
we have lost our way.

No, I think that the position of the Republican Party today has not fulfilled
their traditions.

And that's why we lost last year. And if we don't go back to our traditions
and believe in the Constitution, limited government, personal liberties, and a
foreign policy that's noninterventionist, that won't bankrupt us, so that we
can defend this country -- we can't even defend our own cities while we're
prancing around the entire world.

(APPLAUSE)


 Well, it all depends on what you mean by "all of this." the CFR exists, the Trilateral Commission exists. And it's a, quote, "conspiracy of ideas." This is an ideological battle. Some people believe in globalism. Others of us believe in national sovereignty.

And there is a move on toward a North American union, just like early on there
was a move on for a European Union, and it eventually ended up.

And there is a move on toward a North American Union, just like early on there
was a move on for a European Union, and eventually ended up. So we had NAFTA
and moving toward a NAFTA highway. These are real things. It's not somebody
made these up. It's not a conspiracy. They don't talk about it, and they might
not admit about it, but there's been money spent on it. There was legislation
passed in the Texas legislature unanimously to put a halt on it. They're
planning on millions of acres taken by eminent domain for an international
highway from Mexico to Canada, which is going to make the immigration problem
that much worse.

So it's not so much a secretive conspiracy, it's a contest between ideologies,
whether we believe in our institutions here, our national sovereignty, our
Constitution, or are we going to further move into the direction of
international government, more U.N.

You know, this country goes to war under U.N. resolutions. I don't like big
government in Washington, so I don't like this trend toward international
government. We have a WTO that wants to control our drug industry, our
nutritional products. So, I'm against all that.

But it's not so much as a sinister conspiracy. It's just knowledge is out
there. If we look for it, you'll realize that our national sovereignty is
under threat.


 Yes, and I would like to state that, to the statement earlier made that we all went to Washington to change Washington and Washington changed us, I don't think that applies to me; Washington did not change me.

(Applause)

I would like to change Washington, and we could by cutting three programs,
such as the Department of Education -- Ronald Reagan used to talk about that
-- Department of Energy, Department of Homeland Security is the biggest
bureaucracy we ever had.

(Applause)

And besides, what we can do is we can have a stronger national defense by
changing our foreign policy. Our foreign policy is costing us a trillion
dollars, and we can spend most of that or a lot of that money home if we would
bring our troops home.

(Applause)


 Absolutely. The real question you have to ask is why do I get the most money from active duty officers and military personnel?

(Applause)

What John is saying is just totally distorted.

(Protester shouts off-mike)


 He doesn't even understand the difference between non- intervention and isolationism. I am talking isolationism. I am isolationist. I want to trade with people, talk with people, travel. But I don't want to send troops overseas using force to tell them how to live. We would object to it here and they're going to object to us over there.

(Applause)


 I have never voted for a tax increase; never will. But the tax issue is only one-half of it.

You can easily pledge not to raise taxes, but you have to cut spending.

(Applause)


 You know, it's not a federal function to determine the penalties for a crime of abortion if it's illegal in a state. It's up to the state, it's up to the juries. And it should be up to discretion because it's not an easy issue to deal with. But the first thing we have to do is get the federal government out of it. We don't need a federal abortion police. That's the last thing that we need.

(Applause)

But for the ...


 Pardon me?


 I don't personally think so. I'm an O.B. doctor, and I practiced medicine for 30 years, and I of course never saw one time when a medically necessary abortion had to be done.

But so I think it certainly is a crime. But I also understand the
difficulties. I think when you're talking about third trimester deliberate
abortion and partial birth abortions, I mean, there has to be a criminal
penalty for the person that's committing that crime. But I really think it's
the person who commits the crime. And I think that is the abortionist.


 Well, I think it's up to the states. I'm not in the state -- I'm not running for governor. And I think it's different, and I don't think it should be all 50 states the same way. So, I don't think that should be up to the president to decide that.


 The best commitment we can make to the Iraqi people is to give them their country back. That's the most important thing that we can do.

(Applause)

Already, part of their country has been taken back. In the south, they claim
the surge has worked, but the surge really hasn't worked. There's less
violence, but al-Sadr has essentially won in the south.

The British are leaving. The brigade of Al Sadr now is in charge, so they are
getting their country back. They're in charge up north -- the Shia -- the
people in the north are in charge, as well, and there's no violence up there
or nearly as much.

So, let the people have their country back again. Just think of the cleaning
up of the mess after we left Vietnam. Vietnam now is a friend of ours -- we
trade with them, the president comes here.

What we achieved in peace was unachievable in 20 years of the French and the
Americans being in Vietnam.

So it's time for us to take care of America first.

(Applause)


 Shortly after the Vietnam War ended, Colonel Tu and Colonel Summers met, and they were talking about this. And our -- and the American colonel said, "You know, we never lost one battle." And Colonel Tu, the Vietnamese says, "Yes, but that's irrelevant."

And it is irrelevant. But we have to realize why they want to come here.
Wolfowitz even admitted that one of the major reasons that the Al Qaida was
organized and energized was because of our military base in Saudi Arabia.

He says, "Oh, now, we can take the base away." He understood why they came
here. They come here because we're occupying their country, just as we would
object if they occupied our country.

(Audience booing)


 The people are sick and tired of what they're getting, and they want some real changes.

I don't want to run your life. We need less taxation, less regulations, a
better economic system.

We were not meant to be an empire; we were meant to be a republic, protecting
liberty here at home.

It's up to you to spread this message around this country. This is an American
cause, it's a cause of freedom. There's something going on in this country,
and it stinks. It really stinks.

(End videotape)


 The infrastructure problem in this country is very, very serious. We as Americans are taxed to blow up the bridges overseas. We're taxed to go over and rebuild the bridges overseas while our bridges are falling down in this country.

This country is going bankrupt, and we can't afford this. We need to take care
of ourselves. We do not need to sacrifice one thing more. We just need to take
care of ourselves and get the government out of our lives and off our back and
out of our wallets.

(Applause)


 Now that's what I call a tough question, because I have no intention of doing this.

I am a Republican. I have won 10 times as a Republican and we're doing quite
well. We had 5,000 people show up at a rally in front of the Independence Hall
with blacks and Hispanics and a cross-section of this country.

You know that we raised $4.3 million in one day?

(Applause)

Without spending one cent. We didn't even pay an individual to go out and they
weren't professional fund-raisers. It came in here -- it was automatic.

We're struggling to figure out how to spend the money. This is country is in a
revolution. They're sick and tired of what they're getting. And I happen to be
lucky enough to be part of it.


 It's absolutely a threat to our national security because we've spent too much, we tax too much, we borrow too much, and we print too much. When a country spends beyond its means, eventually it will destroy the currency, and we're in the midst of a currency crisis. Our dollar is going down rapidly as we speak. It's because we have lived beyond our means, we can't afford the foreign policy we have. We have to cut back. We have to live within our means. If we're going to spend money, we ought to spend it at home, and that is why we have to change this foreign policy. We can't afford to do what we're doing today, because it will destroy our dollar.


 I think it's absolutely unnecessary to sacrifice. We want to give people more freedom, more chance to spend their own money. It's unnecessary. We can cut by looking at our foreign policy. We maintain an empire which we can't afford. We have 700 bases overseas. We're in 130 countries. We cut there and then we have a better defense of this country and the people get that money and they get to spend it here at home. There's no need to sacrifice, we need more liberty, more rights for the people to spend their own money. In that situation, there is no sacrifice and no need for it.


 The most sinister of all taxes is the inflation tax, and it is the most regressive. It hits the poor and the middle class. When you destroy a currency by creating money out of thin air to pay the bills, the value of the dollar goes down and people get hit with a higher cost of living. It's the middle class that's being wiped out. It is the most evil of all taxes. 


 Well, we need to adopt free trade agreements with other countries. Today we inhibit the export of, say, farm products to countries like Cuba. It's time we changed our attitude about Cuba. We should be looking to open these markets. But our markets get closed for monetary reasons because our chief export is our dollar. Because we have the reserve currency of the world, people take these dollars and our jobs go overseas. You can't solve any of these problems if you don't look at the monetary system and how it contributes to these job losses in order to provide the prosperity for our people here at home.


 The goal of all political action should be to preserve liberty. We need more freedom in this country. We need to look to ourselves and what we are doing. We have drifted so far from our Constitution that the government that – the Constitution was written to restrain our government. Yet we've turned around and the Constitution now is used to restrain the people. But we have no chance if we don't restrain the government in all that they do in undermining our persona liberties, controlling our economic well being, and using it as an excuse to police the world. If we don't change the role for government, this country is going to suffer a very serious, serious economic crisis.


 Probably the federal government. We've been involved at the federal level for over 50 years, we've had a Department of Education. It used to be the policy of the Republican Party to get rid of the Department of Education. We finally get in charge and a chance to do something, so we double the size of the Department of Education, and we have No Child Left Behind. The teachers don't like it. The students don't like it. The quality of education hasn't gone up. The cost of education has gone up. So, we need to look to our local resources, we need to release the creative energy of the teachers at the local level, but what we can do immediately is to give tax credits. I have a bill that would give tax credits to the teachers to raise their salaries. At the same time we should encourage home schooling and private schooling and let the individuals write that off. The parents have to get control of the education. It' used to be parents had control of education through local school boards. Today it's the judicial system and the executive branch of government, the bureaucracy that controls things, and it would be predictable that the quality would go down. The money goes to the bureaucrats and not to this educational system at home.


 Well, there's a limit to what you can do in one year. And at home, it's more difficult. You would have to work with a Congress, but a commander in chief could end the war. We could bring our troops home. That would be a major event. It would be very valuable. We could be diplomatically – we could become diplomatically credible once again around the world. Right now today we're not. Even our allies resent what we do. We would have no more preemptive war. We would threaten nobody. We would not threaten Iran. Now it is proven once again Iraq didn't have the nuclear weapons, had nothing to do with 9/11. The Iranians have no nuclear weapons, according to the CIA. There's no need for us to threaten the Iranians. We could immediately turn the Navy around and bring them home, and I think this would be a major step to ward peace.


 The Internet is delightful. It is just delightful for finding the information. And if there's a question that I need, ask, you can find it. So, I spend a lot of time getting information that was at one time in my life very difficult to find. There should be no excuse in this country anymore for not finding correct answers and analyzing the problems that we face, because the correct answers are out there and judgments should be made to the best of one's ability.


 Well, the secret is the term revolution. It wasn't my word, and it didn't come up on my Web page. It was coined by the supporters but, in a way, it is revolutionary to go back to the Constitution. We'd like to continue the old revolution. Believe me, freedom is unifying. We bring a lot of people together. People, then are free to choose what they would like to do with their lives, free to choose how they would spend their money. And all of a sudden we wouldn't be telling other countries how to live. This brings people together, and I think it's appealing to both left and right and middle. And our campaign really has that appeal so, therefore, we would bring the Congress together.


 My advice would be to reread the oath of office, take it seriously, obey the Constitution. We are well defended against all enemies foreign. We should be much more careful about defending against the enemies domestic.


 Well, a government program is too vague. What kind of a government program? 

If it's appropriating money and trying to stimulate that way and spend more
money, no, that would be the wrong thing to do. But a government program of a
-- of a reduced tax burden, yes, that would be.

Also, to solve this problem, you have to understand why we're in a recession.
I believe we're in a recession. I think it's going to get a lot worse if we
continue to do the wrong things that we've done in the past, that it's going
to be delayed, just as what happened in the Depression.

But you have to understand that over-stimulation in an economy by artificially
low interest rates by the Federal Reserve is the source of the recession.


 The recession has been predictable. We just don't know exactly when it will come. 

If you do the wrong thing, it's going to last for a long time. The boom period
comes when they just pour out easy credit and it teaches people to do the
wrong things. There's a lot of malinvestment, debt that goes in the wrong
direction, consumers who do the wrong things, and businessmen who do the wrong
thing.

So we have to attack this and understand the importance of Austrian theory of
the business cycle. If you don't, we're going to continue to do this and the
longer you delay the recession, the worse the recession is, and we've delayed
a serious recession for a long time.

The housing market's already in depression and a lot of people are hurt and
the standing of living in this country is going down. Look at what's happening
to the dollar.

And what is being offered by the Federal Reserve and Treasury and everybody in
Washington? Lower interest rates. Well, lower interest rates is the problem.
Artificially low interest rates is the artificial stimulus which causes the
bubble, which allows the inevitable recession to come.

So what we need to do is deal with monetary policy and not pretend that
artificial stimulus by more spending is going to help. That won't do you one
bit of good.


 Well, I can't tell people what to do, but I've abandoned those viewpoints. I don't believe that, and that's the only thing that is important. And so I don't endorse anything they say. 

But I would like to take an opportunity to talk about the issue that we've
been debating here for the last 20 minutes...


 Well, it doesn't do me any good, so if they care about me, they should. But the only thing I have control over is what I believe and what I say. I can't tell them what to do. So I don't endorse what they say and I don't believe that, so, please, could I participate in the current debate rather than picking (ph) this out. 

(APPLAUSE)

(CROSSTALK)


 No, I would like to address the subject about whether or not we've lost our way and whether there's a coalition building or whether it's gone. I think it's gone. I don't think we're fiscal conservatives anymore. Look at what we've done over these 10 years. We finally got control of the government and we became big-government people. 

Our deficit's out of control and we no longer are opposed to new entitlements.
We are entitlement people. And then we turn around and we talk about liberty
and we've undermined the Fourth Amendment and personal liberty and personal
privacy. In the year 2000, we won the election by condemning the Democrats for
nation-building and policing the world, and now, what are we doing?

We're policing the world, we're involved in all of these countries around the
world and threatening going into Iran and Pakistan and on and on. At the same
time, our economy is suffering to the point where we can't even finance what
we have here today. We have to borrow from the Chinese and the dollar is
crashing.

So no wonder our coalition is breaking up. We actually have lost our way. Now,
over the years, I've never voted to spend one penny of the Social Security
fund, because I'm a fiscal conservative. If you want the Social Security
system to work, get people who will vote against robbing the Social Security
fund.


 I would certainly urge a lot more caution than I'm hearing here tonight. It reminds me of what happened in the Gulf of Tonkin. We went to war there, then, later on, found out there was a lot of false information. 

So here we have -- let's put it in perspective. We have five small speedboats
attacking the U.S. Navy with a Destroyer? They could take care of those
speedboats in about five seconds. And here we're ready to start World War III
over this?

And now, guess what, today, the Navy commander of the Fifth Fleet was on ABC
and announced that, you know, that voice might not have come from those
vessels. So what does that mean? Was there a rush to judgment on this, ready
to go to war?

And you know there are people in this administration and in Washington, D.C.,
that are looking for the chance. They were so disappointed with the national
estimate on intelligence. And they were disappointed that there's no attempt
to build weapons in Iran since 2003.


 So what -- I just don't see this rush to judgment. 


 I'm very sorry, I can't hear a word you said. 

(APPLAUSE)

You'll have to speak up.


 Well, I didn't hear that. Of course we want caution. But I'm worrying about the policy of why we're looking for a justification. Now there are no weapons, actually people are looking around for an excuse to bomb Iran. 

I mean, we're already, with our CIA, being involved in trying to overthrow
that government, and we don't need another war. And this incident should not
be thrown out of proportion to the point where we're getting ready to attack
Iran over this.


 Well, if he followed my advice, yes, we wouldn't be there. We've been doing that for a good many years, and it hasn't seemed to come to success. 

No, I think if we weren't there, there'd be more incentives to come to a
peaceful agreement. But we support both sides. You know, not only with the
Palestinians, but the Lebanese and all the Arab nations.

We support Israel, and we try to have this balance. But I think it would be
much better to have a balance by being out of there. And I think it would be a
greater incentive for Israel and the Palestinians and all the Arab nations to
come together and talk because I think we get in the way too often of these.
And besides, it's costing us a lot of money and it's costing us lives now.

And it's time that we come to the point where we believe the world can solve
some of their problems without us. And also, we're out of money. We can't do
it any longer.

We're going bankrupt. And the empires of the world have always ended badly
through economic terms.


 So whether there are peace agreements over there, I mean, for instance, if we would stop all aid to over there, we would stop three times as much aid as Israel gets through the Arab nations. 

Why do we arm the Arab nations and they're the enemies of Israel? But we
continue to do that. So why don't we trade with everybody and talk with them,
and there's a greater incentive to work these problems out.

I think if we'd have been out of there a lot sooner, there may well have been
a much different settlement after the Kuwait invasion, because Israel was
quite capable of working with moderate Arab nations. They tried to. None of
the Arab nations wanted Saddam Hussein in Kuwait and I think they could have
taken care of Saddam Hussein back then and saved all the mess that we have
now, because I think there are so many unintended consequences and way too
much blowback.

(APPLAUSE)


 May I answer that? May I answer that? 


 I'm talking actually about that, because that's what we have been doing. We used to support Saddam Hussein and we used to be allied with Osama Bin Laden, and what I want to do is stop that. 

Who are our friends one day turn out to be our enemies. Right now, we finally
got rid of Saddam Hussein. And what are we doing now? We're re-arming the
Sunnis, the old henchmen of Saddam Hussein.

And what are they going to do with it? There's all those weapons we're giving
the Sunnis in Baghdad. So look out, believe me, that war is not over and right
now they're demanding more troops in Afghanistan and we're -- some people,
like the Senator, he thinks we should be there for 100 years if necessary.

How can he commit the young people of this world, five more generations, to be
in Iraq if it's necessary? I say it's time to come home.

(APPLAUSE)


 In many ways, we treat Israel as a stepchild. We do not give them responsibility that they deserve. We undermine their national sovereignty. We don't let them design their own peace treaties with their neighbors. And then we turn around and say that, when you want to do that or you want to defend your borders, they have to check it out with us. 

I think Israel would be a lot safer. I made the point earlier. We give three
times as much money to the Arabs. Why do we arm their enemies? So if you care
about Israel, you should be against all the weapons that go to the Arab
nations.

(APPLAUSE)

And I just don't see any purpose in not treating Israel in an adult fashion. I
think they'd be a lot better off.

I think they, one time in the '80s, took care of a nuclear reactor in Iraq. I
stood up and defended Israel for this. Nobody else did at that time.

But we need to recognize they deserve their sovereignty, just as we deserve
our sovereignty.


 I believe that if they assumed more responsibility, there would be more peace there and that there would be a lot less threat to us. Besides, we don't have any money to do this. 

(APPLAUSE)


 Well, we've only had two little primaries so far. So it's pretty premature to decide which one is going to be the candidate. But, you know, when you think about it, if you measured everything I've ever said, every vote I've ever taken against the Constitution, you know, I'm a strict constitutionalist. 

Are you suggesting the Republicans should write me off because I'm a strict
constitutionalist? I'm the most conservative member here. I have voted, you
know, against more spending and waste in government than anybody else.

(APPLAUSE)

So you're suggesting that I'm not electable and the Republicans don't want me
because I'm a strict fiscal conservative, because I believe in civil
liberties? Why should we not be defending civil liberties and why should we
not be talking about foreign policy that used to be the part of the Republican
Party?


 Mr. Republican Robert Taft didn't even want us to be in NATO and you're saying now that we have to continue to borrow money from China to finance this empire that we can't afford? 

Let me see if I get this right. We need to borrow $10 billion from China, and
then we give it to Musharraf, who is a military dictator, who overthrew an
elected government. And then we go to war, we lose all these lives promoting
democracy in Iraq. I mean, what's going on here?

(APPLAUSE)

And you're saying that this isn't appealing to Republicans? Where did this
come about? I think this is the Republican message. I defend the platform. It
used to say we'd (inaudible) the Department of Education. It doesn't say that
now.

We, as Republicans, went and doubled the size of the Department of Education,
so where have we gone? I think we've lost our way. And then the insinuation
that I am less Republican because of that?


 Well, I don't know that, but I don't know if that's necessarily true, but I do think we should enforce the law. And the law says that illegals shouldn't be here and that we shouldn't have amnesty. 

But I think this whole thing should be thought of more in economic terms.
Maybe I think about economics too much. But there is something said in
economics that, if you subsidize something, you get more of it.

And this is what we do. We encourage it by giving free medical care, and free
education, and the promise of amnesty. And no wonder more will come.


 We have a weakening economy and now immigrants, especially the illegals, are seen as a threat because they come and they undermine our tax system. And some of our hospitals are being closed and some of our people won't work because of the welfare state. 

You can't solve this problem if you don't deal with the terms of welfarism.
And, besides, you know, some of our border guards are over in Iraq. I think
they would be better off on our borders, you know, protecting our borders, not
in Iraq.

(APPLAUSE)


 So, yes, I think we have to deal with it. And if we don't deal with it carefully, yes, we're going to lose some votes on it. But quite frankly, the law is the law and we should enforce the law. 


 Well, sure, indirectly. They shouldn't stimulate it by interfering in the market rate of interest. That's where our basic problem comes from. And when you do that, you get into these problems, and then everybody wants to solve the problem by printing more money and spending more money and asking the Federal Reserve to, you know, lower interest rates. And that just makes the problem that much worse. 

The government does have a responsibility, but it's supposed to lower taxes,
get rid of regulations, and devise a monetary policy that makes some -- makes
some sense.

But to continue to say that we just appropriate more money, which is more
deficit, and then expect us either to borrow it or expect the Federal Reserve
to monetize it, it makes our problems worse.

Just look at what's happening today. The dollar is crashing. And why -- and --
and -- and Tim there suggests that we -- we think of the economy, but not in
foreign policy. You can't do that. They're -- they're one and the same. That's
where all the money's going. We're spending nearly a trillion dollars a year
overseas maintaining this empire.

And then there's never been a war fought without inflation and destruction and
devaluation of a currency. And this is what we're doing today to ourselves, is
we're literally spending ourselves into oblivion.

But nobody here is willing to even suggest that we cut something overseas. But
we have to. We don't need to cut anything here at home. I'd like to see things
frozen. I'd like to see massive tax cuts. But we need deregulation. I was one
of three people that voted against Sarbanes-Oxley. I knew that would be a
problem, and it is a problem for the financial markets.

So this is the kind of thing we need. We need the government out of the way,
but it should have sound money, low taxes, less regulations, and a sensible
policy where we're not wasting our money overseas.


 Well, you know, I think that we can't run on that program. I think what we have to run on is an old-fashioned Republican program. 

I can't be identified with this. I'm known as the taxpayer's best friend; I've
never voted for a tax increase and I voted for the least amount of spending.
So I'm not part of that crowd.

But what we need to do is -- is reinstate Republican principles. Then we could
run on it. But we have drifted a long way from that, and that is because of
all these programs.

But there was never my participation in this. I was waving a flag the whole
time saying, slow up, slow up; this -- this isn't going well. And here we are.
We're at the verge of bankruptcy.

We're -- we're moving into a new era, believe it or not. With the dollar and
our economy and the world economy, this is a new era.


 It was a very bad idea, and it wasn't worth it. (Cheers, applause.) The al Qaeda wasn't there then; they're there now. There were no weapons of mass destruction. Had nothing to do with 9/11. 

There was no aggression. This decision on policy was made in 1998 under the
previous administration because they called for the removal of Saddam Hussein.
It wasn't worth it, and it's a sad story because we started that war and we
should never be a country that starts war needlessly.


 My -- my question is for Senator McCain. 

This is an economic question that I wanted to ask. It has to do with the
President's Working Group on Financial Markets.

I'd like to know what your opinion is of this and whether you would keep it in
place, what their role would be, or you would get rid of this group. And if
you kept the group, would you make sure we would see some sunlight and know
what they're doing and how they're being involved in our markets?


 So you'd get rid of the group? 


 (Laughs.) 


 Yes, but not overnight. As a matter of fact, my -- my program's the only one that is going to be able to take care of the elderly. 

I'd like to get the young people out -- out of it, just the younger
generation, because there's no money there, and they're going to have to pay
50 years and they're not going to get anything.

Now, I'm saying I'd take care of all the elderly, all those who are dependent,
but I would save the money from this wild spending overseas. We can save
hundreds of billions of dollars and still take care of the elderly. Right now
they're getting behind because they're having a 10 to 12 percent inflation
rate and we give them a 2 percent increase, and they're really hurting. I
don't want taxes on the Social Security benefits that they receive. I have a
bill in that would secure the trust fund, where none of that money could be
spent in the -- in the general revenues.

So in many ways, though, the goal would be to get us out of this program that
is a failure -- it doesn't work -- and is going to bankrupt this country; that
the only way you can do that is save enough money, tide the people over, let
the young people get out, because they're going to be paying all these years
and they're not going to get anything.

So ironically, I, who defend the position that, you know, the federal
government probably should have never been involved, I probably have the only
program that would really help the elderly because the way we're going now,
the money's not going to be there.

There's no way these cost-of-living increases are ever going to keep up with
their, you know, their benefits are never going to keep up with their cost of
living. They're decreasing. I say, my program has a better chance of helping
them than any other one.


 My biggest concern is they won't stick to the party principles that Republicans stood for for so long, and, you know, being conservative and balanced budgets and limited government and individual freedom. No, I have no intention of going into another party. I've been elected 10 times as a Republican. I was from a Republican family. And no, I don't have -- I don't plan to do that. I wish they would worry about it, you know, just in case. But no, I have no intention of doing that, but it might keep them on their toes. 

But no, I just think that the Republican Party has a problem because we don't
act like Republicans. And we talked about this earlier; you know, that we're
spending money that we don't have, we've run up these deficits. We -- you
know, in the old days we used to be against the Department of Education; now
we've doubled the size of it. No child Left behind. Even the Democrats are
running against some of the things that we do. And they used to love that kind
of stuff. And it used to be that we used to stop the wars. We stopped the
Korean War. We were supposed to stop the Vietnam War the Democrats started.
And here we're starting these wars. So that's why we've lost our way.

So I don't think it's a matter of me leaving the Republican Party. If they
would look toward what we're doing and the number of people who want to come
into the party, they shouldn't be obstructing us, they should welcome.

The party's getting smaller. Yet they say: Oh, you're too strict on the
Constitution.

Why should us who believe strictly in the Constitution, the rule of law, be
excluded? That's the way a lot of the people that -- who gather around my
candidacy think they're being treated.

So I would say why don't we have a big tent and welcome those of us who
believe in liberty and believe in the Constitution. That's what it's all
about, and that's what the Republican Party used to stand for.


 No, no, we're not better off, we're worse off, but it's partially this administration's fault and it's the Congress. But it also involves an economic system that we've had for a long time and a monetary system that we've had a foreign policy that's coming to an end, and we have to -- to admit this. 

You know, the Republicans were elected in 1994 to change direction of the
country, because people sensed there was something wrong, we were going the
wrong direction, but we didn't do anything.

In the year 2000 we did also. We were -- we were elected in the year 2000 to
have a humble foreign policy and not police the world. Yet what we doing now?
We're bogged down in another war. We're bankrupting our country. And we're --
we have an empire that we're trying to defend. It costs us a trillion dollars
a year.

And the standard of living is going down today. But it's going down, and the
middle class is hurting because of the monetary policy. When you destroy a
currency, the middle class gets wiped out. Poor countries don't even have
middle classes. We used to have one, and they're on the ropes right now. But
it has to do with a fiscal policy, monetary policy and foreign policy of way
too much spending. But it took a lot of years for us to get here. The people
in this country have been begging for a change in direction, and they haven't
had it.


 It's time we gave it to them. 


 Yes, I think California should do what they want, and we all recognize that. 

But one thing that hasn't been emphasized here that should be emphasized when
we're dealing with the environment and -- and gashouse -- you know, greenhouse
gases is property rights. We -- we neglected during the Industrial Revolution
property rights, and governments and big corporations got together and
colluded. And that's what has to be reversed. You have to emphasize the
property rights.

But I would like to take one minute, since I didn't get a chance to answer
this discussion on -- on conservative versus liberal --


 Well, you know, the governor says that you have to borrow for a handout of a check from the Chinese. Where are you going to get the money to build the highway? Same old thing. You know, we have a foreign policy where we blow up bridges overseas; and then we tax the people to go over and rebuild the bridges overseas; and our bridges are falling down and our infrastructure's falling down. 

So, yes, this money should be spent back here at home.

We have a trillion-dollar foreign operation to operate our empire. That's
where the money is. You can't keep borrowing from China. You can't keep
printing the money.

We have to cut some spending. That's what nobody here talks about. Where do
you cut spending if you want to spend some money? We need lower taxes, less
regulations and we need to free up the market.

We can't expect the government to do everything. We have to have faith and
confidence that the market works, but you can't do any of that unless you look
at the monetary system.


 I wouldn't have appointed her because I would have looked for somebody that I would have seen a much stricter constitutionalist. And -- 


 I don't even think they should have gone, so -- (laughs, laughter) -- keeping them for a hundred years, where's the money going to come from? (Cheers, applause.) 

You know, the country's in bankruptcy, and when I listen to this argument, I
mean, I find it rather silly because they're arguing technicalities of a
policy they both agree with. They agreed going in, they agreed for staying,
agreed for staying how many years, and these are technicalities. We should be
debating foreign policy, whether we should have interventionism or non-
interventionism, whether we should be defending this country or whether we
should be the policeman of the world, whether we should be, you know, running
our empire or not and how are we going to have guns and butter. You know, the
'70s were horrible because we paid for the guns and butters of the '60s.

Now we're doing the same thing, and nobody even seems to care. The dollar's
crashing, and you're talking about these technicalities, about who said what,
when? (Cheers, applause.)

I mean, in -- in 1952, we Republicans were elected to stop the war in Korea.
In 1968, we were elected to stop the war in Vietnam. And tragically -- we
didn't stop it very fast -- 30,000 more men died.

So when I talk about these long-term stays, I think, how many men are you
willing to let die for this, for something that has nothing to do with our
national security?

There were no al Qaeda there. Had nothing to do with 9/11. And there was no
threat to our national security. They never committed aggression. It's
unconstitutional. It's an undeclared war. And we have these silly arguments
going on about who said what when.


 I think it's time to debate foreign policy and why we don't follow the Constitution and only go to war with a declaration of war. (Cheers, applause.) 


 OK. The Constitution is very clear that the president is commander in chief of the military, but the president is not the commander in chief of the economy or of the people. And when we get asked questions like how are you going to manage the economy, it's a reflection of conventional wisdom, but of a lot of lack of understanding of how the economy works. 

The president is not supposed to manage and run the economy. The people are
supposed to do this. The government is supposed to give them sound money, low
taxes, less regulation. The people are supposed to run it.

But here, we're assuming that the president is supposed to run the economy.
We're not supposed to manage. We're not supposed to manage the people's...


 Yes, by lower taxes and less regulation. They could do a whole lot by having sound money, where we don't print the money out of thin air. That causes the business cycle. That causes your bubbles. 

We're always dealing with the symptoms of the disease and never saying, "how
did this come about?" You know, it comes about because we have a Federal
Reserve that creates money and prints it out of thin air. There is a lot of
malinvestment.

That's the most important thing to understand about the inflation of the
monetary system, is the malinvestment. Then, later on, people suffer. You wipe
out the middle class. But the evil of it all is the vehicle for financing wars
that we shouldn't be in and a welfare state that we shouldn't be doing.

So, yes, we have a role to play, but it's a negative role. We want the people
to be free. We don't want to manage the people and tell them how to live. And
we need a commander in chief. But the most important thing as a commander in
chief is not moving troops around, as much as it is having a wise foreign
policy that doesn't get us involved in so many things that we get trapped in
and we linger year after year. We've been doing this for so long.

And I like President Bush's argument that we have a humble foreign policy when
he ran in 2000, and that we not be the policemen of the world.


 I supported Ronald Reagan in 1976, and there were only four members of Congress that did. And also in 1980. Ronald Reagan came and campaigned for me in 1978. 

I'm not sure exactly what he would do right now, but I do know that he was
very sympathetic to the gold standard, and he told me personally that no great
nation that went off the gold standard ever remained great. And he was very,
very serious about that.

So he had a sound understanding about monetary policy. And for that reason, I
would say look to Ronald Reagan's ideas on money because he, too, was
concerned about runaway inflation and what it does to a country when you ruin
the currency. And that's what's happening today. The dollar is going down and
our country is going to be on the ropes if we don't reverse that trend.

 Right. 


 But you have to realize that the base of the Republican Party shrunk last year because of the war issue. So that percentage represents less people. If you look at 65 to 70 percent of the American people, they want us out of there. They want the war over. 

In 19- -- 2002, I offerer an amendment to International Relations to declare
war, up or down, and it was -- nobody voted for the war. And my argument there
was, if we want to go to war, and if we should go to war, the Congress should
declare it. We don't go to war like we did in Vietnam and Korea, because the
wars never end. And I argued the case and made the point that it would be a
quagmire if we go in.

Ronald Reagan in 1983 sent Marines into Lebanon, and he said he would never
turn tail and run. A few months later, the Marines were killed, 241 were
killed, and the Marines were taken out. And Reagan addressed this subject in
his memoirs. And he says, "I said I would never turn tail and run." He says,
"But I never realized the irrationality of Middle Eastern politics," and he
changed his policy there.

We need the courage of a Ronald Reagan.


 I'd start with the departments -- the Department of Education, the Department of Energy, Department of Homeland Security. We've started with -- we've just -- the Republicans put in the Department of Homeland -- it's a monstrous type of bureaucracy. It was supposed to be streamlining our security and it's unmanageable. I mean, just think of the efficiency of FEMA in its efforts to take care of the floods and the hurricanes. 

So yes, there's a lot of things that we can cut, but we can't cut anything
until we change our philosophy about what government should do. If you think
that we can continue to police the world and spend hundreds of billions of
dollars overseas, and spend hundreds of billions of dollars running a welfare
state, an entitlement system that has accumulated $60 trillion worth of
obligations, and think that we can run the economy this way; we spend so much
money now that we have to borrow nearly $3 billion a day from foreigners to
take care of our consumption, and we can't afford that.

We can't afford it in the government, we can't afford it as a nation.

So tax reform should come, but spending cuts have to come by changing our
attitude what government ought to be doing for us.


 Well, I think we should not go to more bureaucracy. It didn't work. We were spending $40 billion on security prior to 9/11, and they had all the information they needed there to deal with the threat, and it was inefficiency. So what do we do? We add a gigantic bureaucracy, which they're still working on trying to put it together, and a tremendous amount of increase in funds. 

So I don't think that the Republican position ought to be more bureaucracy. I
mean, why did we double the size of the Department of Education?

(Bell rings.)


 Well, I think the party has lost its way, because the conservative wing of the Republican Party always advocated a noninterventionist foreign policy. 

Senator Robert Taft didn't even want to be in NATO. George Bush won the
election in the year 2000 campaigning on a humble foreign policy -- no nation-
building, no policing of the world. Republicans were elected to end the Korean
War. The Republicans were elected to end the Vietnam War. There's a strong
tradition of being anti-war in the Republican party. It is the constitutional
position. It is the advice of the Founders to follow a non-interventionist
foreign policy, stay out of entangling alliances, be friends with countries,
negotiate and talk with them and trade with them.

Just think of the tremendous improvement -- relationships with Vietnam. We
lost 60,000 men. We came home in defeat. Now we go over there and invest in
Vietnam. So there's a lot of merit to the advice of the Founders and following
the Constitution.

And my argument is that we shouldn't go to war so carelessly. (Bell rings.)
When we do, the wars don't end.


 What changed? 


 No. Non-intervention was a major contributing factor. Have you ever read the reasons they attacked us? They attack us because we've been over there; we've been bombing Iraq for 10 years. We've been in the Middle East -- I think Reagan was right. 

We don't understand the irrationality of Middle Eastern politics. So right now
we're building an embassy in Iraq that's bigger than the Vatican. We're
building 14 permanent bases. What would we say here if China was doing this in
our country or in the Gulf of Mexico? We would be objecting. We need to look
at what we do from the perspective of what would happen if somebody else did
it to us. (Applause.)


 I'm suggesting that we listen to the people who attacked us and the reason they did it, and they are delighted that we're over there because Osama bin Laden has said, "I am glad you're over on our sand because we can target you so much easier." They have already now since that time -- (bell rings) -- have killed 3,400 of our men, and I don't think it was necessary. 


 I believe very sincerely that the CIA is correct when they teach and talk about blowback. When we went into Iran in 1953 and installed the shah, yes, there was blowback. A reaction to that was the taking of our hostages and that persists. And if we ignore that, we ignore that at our own risk. If we think that we can do what we want around the world and not incite hatred, then we have a problem. 

They don't come here to attack us because we're rich and we're free. They come
and they attack us because we're over there. I mean, what would we think if we
were -- if other foreign countries were doing that to us?


 Well, the lower the taxes the better, and I think cutting taxes would be beneficial. But we should find places where we could cut spending as well, because eventually a deficit can be very, very harmful to us. But you know, I think it's interesting talking about torture here in that it's become enhanced interrogation technique. It sounds like Newspeak. 

Nobody's for the torture, and I think that's important. But as far as taking
care of a problem like this, the president has the authority to do that. If
we're under imminent attack, the president can take that upon himself to do
it.

But just think. We gave the president authority to go into Afghanistan, and
here we have Osama bin Laden in Pakistan. They have nuclear weapons, and we're
giving them money.

And we forgot about him, and now we're over in -- in Iraq in a war that's
bogging us down, and we have forgotten against -- about dealing with the
people that attacked us. (Bell rings.) And here you have a hypothetical attack
that you're dealing with; we ought to be dealing with the one we have right
now on our hands.


 I'm Ron Paul. I'm a congressman from Texas, serving in my 10th term. I am the champion of the Constitution. 


 I did. 


 No. No, because that bill - probably the fence was my weakest reason for doing that, but for other reasons - to enforce the law - was important, and border security is important. And we've talked about amnesty, which I'm positively opposed to. 

But one thing that has not been mentioned here, which I think is very, very
important - if you subsidize something, you get more of it. So - we subsidize
illegal immigration, we reward it by easy citizenship, either birthright or
amnesty.

But we force our states and our local communities to pay for the health care
and pay for the education. Why wouldn't they bring their families? And because
of our economic conditions, we do need workers. But if we had a truly free
market economy, the illegal immigrants would not be the scapegoat. We would
probably need them and they would be acceptable, but because of economic
conditions, they have become the scapegoat.


 Well, I think we should read the First Amendment, where it says, "Congress shall write no law." And we should write a lot less laws regarding this matter. It shouldn't be a matter of the president or the Congress. It should be local people, local officials. The state should determine so many of these things that we just don't need more laws determining religious things or prayer in school. We should allow people at the local level. 

That's what the Constitution tells us. We don't need somebody in Washington
telling us what we can do, because we don't have perfect knowledge. And that's
the magnificence of our Constitution and our republic. We sort out the
difficult problems at local levels and we don't have one case fit all, because
you have a Supreme Court ruling like on Roe versus Wade; it (ruined ?) it for
the whole country.


 And that's why we shouldn't have it at a central level. 


 I don't think the profits is the issue. The profits are okay if they're legitimately earned in a free market. 

What I object to are subsidies to big corporations when we subsidize them and
give them R&amp;D money. I don't think that should be that way. They should
take it out of the funds that they earn.

But I'm also - you can't discuss energy without discussing our foreign policy.
Why - why do we go to the Middle East? You know that oil is very important
about the Middle East and why we're there. Why did we, our government, help
overthrow Mossadeq in 1953? It had to do with oil. So our foreign policy is
designed to protect our oil interests. The profits - that's not the problem.
It's the problem that we succumb to the temptation to protect oil interests by
literally going out and fighting wars over oil.


 I think the current policy is a decent policy. And the problem that we have with dealing with this subject is we see people as groups, as they belong to certain groups and that they derive their rights as belonging to groups. We don't get our rights because we're gays or women or minorities. We get our rights from our creator as individuals. So every individual should be treated the same way. 

So if there is homosexual behavior in the military that is disruptive, it
should be dealt with. But if there's heterosexual sexual behavior that is
disruptive, it should be dealt with. So it isn't the issue of homosexuality,
it's the concept and the understanding of individual rights. If we understood
that, we would not be dealing with this very important problem.


 No. 


 Well, we've had four years to do this and it hasn't worked. The biggest incentive for them to take upon themselves the responsibility is just for us to leave. We don't need to lose 100 men and women every month, more than 1,000 per year. And so you want it done. You want them to take over. You've got to give them an incentive. 

So I think we should immediately stop patrolling the streets. That's a
policeman's job. It's not the work of the Army. We're not fighting a military
battle. We're in a different type of warfare right now. So the sooner we
recognize that, the sooner we can make sure that no more Americans will die.

We have a lot of goodness in this country and we should promote it, but never
through the barrel of a gun. We should do it by setting good standards,
motivating people, and have them want to emulate us. But you can't enforce our
goodness like the neocons preach with an armed force. It doesn't work. Woodrow
Wilson was telling us about that in promoting democracy a long time ago.


 It doesn't work, and we have to admit it. 


 I think it is the acceptance just recently that we now promote preemptive war. I do not believe that's part of the American tradition. We in the past have always declared war in the defense of our liberties or go to aid somebody, but now we have accepted the principle of preemptive war. We have rejected the just- war theory of Christianity. And now, tonight, we hear that we're not even willing to remove from the table a preemptive nuclear strike against a country that has done no harm to us directly and is no threat to our national security! 

I mean, we have to come to our senses about this issue of war and preemption
and go back to traditions and our Constitution and defend our liberties and
defend our rights, but not to think that we can change the world by force of
arms and to start wars. (Applause.)


 Well, I welcome him to the race because, very specifically, he will help dilute the vote for my benefit because he will be pro-war -- (laughter) -- and I'm the anti-war candidate representing the Republican traditional position. (Cheers, applause.) 


 Well, first off, you're quoting me incorrectly. 


 I said that responsibility for protecting passengers falls with the airline, not the government, not the passengers. The airline's responsible for the aircraft and the passengers. 

If we wouldn't have been dependent on the federal government to set all the
rules, which meant no guns and no resistance, then the terrorists may well
have had second thoughts because the airlines would have had the
responsibility. But we assumed the government was going to take care of us.

After 9/11, instead of moving toward the direction of personal responsibility
and private property and Second Amendment, we moved in the opposite direction.
We turned it over to the federal government, and look at the mess we have now
at airports. I mean, the airlines -- private industry protects their property
all the time. People who haul around money in armored trucks protect their --
their money all the time. But here is one example when the federal government
was involved and they messed it up. And if we put the responsibility on the
right people, respected the Second Amendment, I sincerely believe there would
have been a lot less chance of 9/11 ever happening. (Bell sounds.) (Cheers,
applause.)


 The people who say there will be a bloodbath are the ones who said it would be a cakewalk, it would be slam dunk, and that it would be paid for by oil. Why believe them? They've been wrong on everything they've said. Why not ask the people -- (interrupted by cheers) -- why not ask the people who advise not to go into the region and into the war? The war has not gone well one bit. 

Yes, I would leave, I would leave completely. Why leave the troops in the
region? The fact that we had troops in Saudi Arabia was one of the three
reasons given for the attack on 9/11. So why leave them in the region? They
don't want our troops on the Arabian Peninsula. We have no need for our
national security to have troops on the Arabian Peninsula, and going into Iraq
and Afghanistan and threatening Iran is the worst thing we can do for our
national security.

I am less safe, the American people are less safe for this. It's the policy
that is wrong. Tactical movements and shifting troops around and taking in 30
more and reducing by five, totally irrelevant. We need a new foreign policy
that said we ought to mind our own business, bring our troops home, defend
this country, defend -- (bell sounds) -- our borders --


 No! (Cheers, applause.) I'm saying -- (laughter) -- I'm saying we should take our marching orders from our Constitution. We should not go to war -- (cheers, applause) -- we should not go to war without a declaration. We should not go to war when it's an aggressive war. This is an aggressive invasion. We've committed the invasion of this war, and it's illegal under international law. That's where I take my marching orders, not from any enemy. (Cheers, boos.) 


 The American people didn't go in. A few people advising this administration, a small number of people called the neoconservative hijacked our foreign policy. They're responsible, not the American people. They're not responsible. We shouldn't punish them. (Cheers, applause.) 


 No. When we make a mistake -- (interrupted by applause) -- when we make a mistake, it is the obligation of the people through their representatives to correct the mistake, not to continue the mistake! (Cheers, applause.) 


 No! We've dug a hole for ourselves and we dug a hole for our party! 

We're losing elections and we're going down next year if we don't change it,
and it has all to do with foreign policy, and we have to wake up to this fact.


 We're losing -- we've lost over -- (cheers, applause) -- we have lost -- we have lost 5,000 Americans killed in -- we've lost over 5,000 Americans over there in Afghanistan and Iraq and plus the civilians killed. How many more do you want to lose? How long are we going to be there? How long -- what do we have to pay to save face? That's all we're doing is saving face. It's time we came home! 


 Well, you might ask a better question. Before 9/11, we were spending $40 billion a year, and the FBI was producing numerous information about people being trained on airplanes to fly on but not land in, and they totally ignored them. So it's the inefficiency of the bureaucracy that is the problem. So increasing this with the Department of Homeland Security is spending more money, doesn't solve the problem. Yes, we have every right in the world to know something about intelligence gathering, but we have to have intelligent people interpreting this information. (Cheers, applause.) 

But, you know, just going for increasing presidential powers, as has been
discussed, is rather disturbing to me. This whole idea that we're supposed to
sacrifice liberty for security -- we were advised against that. Don't we
remember that when you sacrifice liberty for security, you lose both? That's
what's happening in this country today. (Cheers, applause.) We have a national
ID card on our doorstep. It's being implemented right now. We have FISA
courts, we have warrantless searches, we've lost habeas corpus, we've had
secret prisons around the world, and we have torture going on. (Bell.) That's
un-American, and we need to use the power of the presidency to get it back in
order in order to take care of us and protect this country and our liberties.


 For one thing, one thing I would remember very clearly is the president doesn't have the authority to go to war -- (cheers) -- he goes to the Congress. 


 He goes to the Congress and finds out if there's any threat to our national security. And thinking back to the 1960s when I was in the Air Force for five years -- and with the Cold War going on, and the Soviets had 40,000, and we stood them down and we didn't have to have a nuclear confrontation -- I would say that we should go very cautiously. We should back off. We should be talking to Iran right now. We shouldn't be looking for the opportunity to attack them. They are at the present time, according to the AEIA (sic/IAEA), cooperating, and by the end of the year they're supposed to be willing to reveal all that they are doing. 

So instead of looking for this scenario where it is inevitable that we have to
attack, I think we ought to be talking about how do you get along with some
people that are deadly like the Soviets and the Chinese and the many others.
We don't have to resort to war every single time there's a confrontation.


 They are not a threat to Israel. Israel has 200 or 300 nuclear missiles, and they can take care of themselves. So you shouldn't assume that we have to jump -- 


 \-- in and go to war -- 


 \-- and certainly shouldn't do it without the consent of the Congress. 


 Well, the main reason I'm here is because I was invited. And I'm delighted that I was invited. And I'm very pleased, because I go wherever I'm invited to talk about freedom. That, to me, is the most important thing, along with the emphasis on the Constitution. 

I believe so strongly that individuals have their rights and their life as a
gift from God, and the purpose of government is to protect life and liberty.

But I'd also like to extend that. If you have the fruits of your labor, I
would like you to keep the fruits of your labor as well.

And under those conditions and under a freedom philosophy and under the
Constitution, we would be so much more prosperous, because we wouldn't be
policing the world, we would be bringing our troops home, and we would take
care of our people here at home.


 I would like to believe that if we had a freer society, it would take care of Blacks and whites and everybody equally because we're all individuals. To me, that is so important. But if we had equal justice under the law, I think it would be a big improvement. If we had probably a repeal of most of the federal laws on drugs and the unfairness on how Blacks are treated with these drugs laws, it would be a tremendous improvement. 

And also, I think that if you're going to have prosperity, it serves
everybody. And if this is done by emphasizing property rights and freedom of
the individuals, making sure that the powerful special interests don't control
Washington, that the military industrial complex doesn't suck away all the
wealth of the country, and then we would have prosperity.

This is what we need and we need to share it. The free society is the only
society that can provide goods and services and distribute them in the most
fair manner. And that is the society that I would advocate and argue for and
believe it's available to us.


 Walter Williams, a very astute free-market economist, has studied this extensively, and he has found that prior to minimum wage laws there was no discrepancy like this. So he put a lot of blame on the minimum wage law. Once government gets interfering, this takes away opportunities. And I believe there is a lot of truth to this because it eliminates an opportunity and a chance for a marginal worker. 

So once again, though, the economy is supported only when you have a sound
economy perpetuated by a government with sound policies. You have to have
sound money. You have to have minimum taxes. You have to have, you know, a
wise foreign policy.

But I have a bill in that might help a lot of people, Black or white or
whomever. I have a bill in that would immediately help these people who are
trying to get a start, that they would never have to pay any taxes or payroll
taxes, if they just happen to be a waiter or a waitress, to give them a chance
to get ahead and get a good job.


 I'm very sorry, but I didn't hear your last sentence, because of the acoustics. 


 I would not sign a bill like you describe, because it would be construed -- and it would be amnesty, and I haven't supported amnesty. 

I also think that it's pretty impractical to get an army in this country to
round up 12 or maybe 20 million. But I do believe that we have to stick to our
guns on obeying the law, and anybody who comes in here illegally shouldn't be
rewarded. And that would be the case.

But I see the immigration problem as a consequence of our welfare state.
Welfare because we encourage people not to work here, but the welfare we offer
the people who come -- they get free medical care. They get free education.
They bankrupt our hospitals. Our hospitals are closing. And it shouldn't be
rewarded. That means that if you don't round them up, you don't reward them,
you don't give them citizenship. At the same time, you can't solve this
problem until you have -- you get rid of the welfare state, because in a
healthy economy, immigrants wouldn't be a threat to us. There would probably
be a desire for more, because we would be starved for workers.

But today, they have become scapegoated because of the weak economy and the
lowering of our standard of living.


 A system designed to protect individual liberty will have no punishments for any group and no privileges. Today, I think inner-city folks and minorities are punished unfairly in the war on drugs. 

For instance, Blacks make up 14 percent of those who use drugs, yet 36 percent
of those arrested are Blacks and it ends up that 63 percent of those who
finally end up in prison are Blacks. This has to change.

We don't have to have more courts and more prisons. We need to repeal the
whole war on drugs. It isn't working.

We have already spent over $400 billion since the early 1970s, and it is
wasted money. Prohibition didn't work. Prohibition on drugs doesn't work. So
we need to come to our senses.

And, absolutely, it's a disease. We don't treat alcoholics like this. This is
a disease, and we should orient ourselves to this. That is one way you could
have equal justice under the law.


 It's very clear, under the Constitution, that we couldn't give the vote to the residents of D.C. without an amendment to the Constitution. And it should be pursued in that manner. 

But when it comes to national ID cards, the identification, I think the states
have the prerogative and the right and the obligations to identify the voters
and they should.

But the reason I get worried about when we start talking about it nationally
is, you know, they might want to use the Real ID. They might want to think
it's a good excuse to have a national ID card to vote, and I am positively
opposed to any move toward the national ID card.


 We've had managed care in this country since the early '70s, and it hasn't worked well. It's very, very expensive, and it's the fault that we changed our ERISA law and our tax laws that created this corporatism that runs medicine. Wall Street rakes off the profits. The patients are unhappy. The doctors are unhappy. And it's a monopoly now. Who lobbies us in Washington? The drug companies and the HMOs. They come. 

And now what is the cry for? Socialized medicine. That's not the answer. We
need to get the government out of the way. Inflation hits the middle class and
the poor the most. Those are the people who are losing it. It's just not
minorities, anybody poor, because inflation wipes out the middle class, and we
have to deal with that.

If you have a product that's not dealt with by government, prices go down when
you have modern technology. And medicine, with all this technology, prices
still go up. But that's because the government is involved.

We don't have enough competition. There's a doctor monopoly out there. We need
alternative health care freely available to the people. They ought to be able
to make their own choices and not controlled by the FDA preventing them to use
some of the medications.


 The most important promise we keep is the oath to obey the Constitution. We just shouldn't be going to all these wars. 

We shouldn't have so many injured and in our hospitals because we shouldn't go
to war unless it's declared.

If it's declared, we should go win it and get it over with. Now we're in this
war for five years or so and nobody sees the end to this.

So, we went in under false pretense. There were no weapons of mass
destruction. There are still -- there are still people who believe that Iraq
had something to do with 9/11, yet 15 of the people were from Saudi Arabia.

We need to live up to our principles so there are less injured veterans, but
when they come home we better jolly well take care of them, and we're not
doing a very good job right now, because all the money's going overseas.

We're broke. We got to do something about it.

And we can't -- we can't perpetuate a welfare state and police an empire
without going bankrupt.


 And we're nearly on the verge of that. 


 The U.S. government has no authority. There's no constitutional authority. There's no moral authority. There's plenty of moral authority and responsibility for individuals to participate. But every time we get involved, no matter where, for good intentions, believe me, we're getting involved in a civil war. 

Even when you send food, it ends up in the hands of the military and they use
it as weapons. So it's not well-intended. We should direct our attention only
to national security and not get involved for these feel-good reasons of going
overseas for the various reasons.

And this is the main reason why I think we ought to just come home from every
place in the world and bring our troops home from Iraq.


 You know, over the years, I've held pretty rigid all my beliefs, but I've changed my opinion about the death penalty. For federal purposes, I no longer believe in the death penalty. I believe it has been issued unjustly. If you're rich, you get away with it; if you're poor and you're from the inner city, you're more likely to be prosecuted and convicted. 

Today, with the DNA evidence, there have been too many mistakes. So I am now
opposed to the federal death penalty.


 Yes. I think this is not a consequence of free markets. What's happening is there's transfer of wealth from the poor and the middle class to the wealthy. This comes about because of the monetary system that we have. When you inflate a currency or destroy a currency, the middle class gets wiped out, so the people who get to use the money first, which is created by the Federal Reserve System, benefit, so the money gravitates to the banks and to Wall Street. See, that's why you have more billionaires than ever before. 

Today this country is in the middle of a recession for a lot of people.
Michigan knows about it. Poor people know about it. The middle class knows
about it. Wall Street doesn't know about it. Washington, D.C., doesn't know
about it. But it's because of the monetary system and the excessive spending.
As long as we live beyond our means, we are destined to live beneath our
means. And we have lived beyond our means because we are financing a foreign
policy that is so extravagant and beyond what we can control, as well as the
spending here at home, and we're depending on the creation of money out of
thin air, which is nothing more than debasement of the currency.

It's counterfeit. And it is a natural, predictable consequence that you're
going to have people benefit from it and other people suffer.

So if you want to help the economy, you have to study monetary theory and
figure out why it is that we're suffering. And everybody doesn't suffer
equally, or this wouldn't be so bad. It's always the poor people, those on
retired incomes, that suffer the most. But the politicians and those who get
to use the money first, like the military industrial complex, they make a lot
of money, and they benefit from it.


 If there is no conflict with national security, certainly, yes, they should. 


 I don't think they're a threat to our national security, no. So they would be able to. 


 Probably not, but that should not be a reason. That's an old theory. It's mercantilistic. It's neocolonialism that you have to maintain your supply routes and your natural resources. 

But I think there's still a lot of those kind of people around, and they
believe -- you know, we were told it was about oil and jobs when it first
started in 1990, and this is just a continuation of that war. Indeed, this war
is a mistake; it was a mistake to go in. It's very costly, and it has a lot of
economic ramifications. We're going broke. We have this huge deficit. We're
spending nearly a trillion dollars with maintaining our empire overseas, and
that's a cost. Right now we owe foreigners $2.7 trillion. No wonder they have
money to come back in here and buy stuff up, and then we object; but that has
to do with our monetary system, as well as our foreign policy.

So if we want prosperity, we have to change our foreign policy; we have to
live within our means, but we can't maintain a reserve currency where all --
our greatest export today are paper dollars. We create money out of thin air,
and they still accept it as if it was backed by gold. And that is the reason
all this money goes overseas. And at the same time, we finance all this
military activity overseas, and it's bankrupting this country. And not only
that, it's a threat to our personal liberties here, and it's going to be a
threat to our economy because we are beginning to live beneath our means. And
that is a natural consequence of what happens when you live beyond your means.

So we must change our policy both overseas and domestically.


 Absolutely. This idea of going and talking to attorneys totally baffles me. Why don't we just open up the Constitution and read it? You're not allowed to go to war without a declaration of war. 

Now, as far as fleeting enemies go, yes, if there's an imminent attack on us,
we'd never had that happen in 220 years. The thought that the Iranians could
pose an imminent attack on the United States is preposterous. There's no way.
This is just --


 This is just war propaganda, continual war propaganda, preparing this nation to go to war and spread this war, not only in Iraq but into Iran, unconstitutionally. It is a road to disaster for us as a nation. It's a road to our financial disaster if we don't read the Constitution once in a while. 


 That was no country. (Applause.) That was 19 thugs. It has nothing to do with a country. 


 Well, first, we have to have a sound economy and we don't. We're overtaxed, we're overregulated. We work with a currency that is non-functional, and our prosperity is slipping. And we are overextended overseas; you can't have a prosperous economy at home when you're spending all the money overseas. 

You can't even have a strong national defense if you're spending all this
money overseas in wars that we're not winning.

So if we want a prosperous economy here, we have to change these policies, and
we can't be bailing out farmers and subsidizing ethanol. This is just the
wrong way to go. The taxpayers pays (sic) for the subsidies, and then they pay
for higher prices when they buy the gasoline or buy the food. It never works.


 The right to unionize should be a basic right of any group. You should be able to organize. You should have no privileges, no special benefits legislated to benefit the unions, but you should never deny any working group to organize and negotiate for the best set of standards of working conditions. 


 Not right now I don't, not unless they're willing to end the war and bring our troops home, not unless they're willing to look at excessive spending. 


 No, I'm not going to support them if they continue down the path which has taken our party down the tubes. I mean, we've lost credibility because of all our spending, because we have violated the civil liberties of all the American people, and we have adopted the Democrats' foreign policy. 

Why don't we run on George Bush's foreign policy of a humble foreign policy
and no nation building and don't police the world? Then I'll support them.


 Well, I certainly agreed with his foreign policy that he ran on and that we, as Republicans, won in year 2000. You know, the humble foreign policy, no nation building, don't be the policeman of the world. 

And we were strongly critical of the policy of the Clinton administration that
did the opposite and we fell short. Of course, the excuse is that 9/11 changed
everything.

But the Bush doctrine of preemptive war is not a minor change; this is huge.
This is the first time we, as a nation, accept as our policy that we start the
wars. I don't understand this.

And that all options are on the table to go after Iran?

This is not necessary. These are Third World nations. They're not capable.

But I think it's the misunderstanding or the disagreements that we've had in
this debate along the campaign trail is the nature of the threat.


 I'm as concerned about the nature of the threat of terrorism as anybody, if not more so. But they don't attack us because we're free and prosperous. 

And there all radicals in all elements, in all religions that will resort to
violence. But if we don't understand that the reaction is, is because we
invade their countries and occupy their countries, we have bases in their
country -- and we haven't done it just since 9/11, but we have done that a
long time.

I mean, it was the Air Force base in Saudi Arabia before 9/11 that was given
as the excuse.

If we don't understand that, we can't win this war against terrorism.


 Charlie? 


 Let me try to explain so you can understand this better. 

Try to visualize how we would react if they did that to us, if a country, say
China, came that great distance across the ocean, and they say, "We want you
to live like us. We want you to have our economic system. We want bases on
your land. We want to protect our oil."

Even if we do that with good intentions -- even if the Chinese did that with
good intentions, we would all be together and we'd be furious.

(CROSSTALK)


 What would you do if the Chinese... 

(CROSSTALK)


 What would you do? 


 And what you're saying... 


 We were occupying... 


 We had an air base in Saudi Arabia. 


 We have propped up -- how many governments have we propped up? 


 ... I get a chance to respond. 

(CROSSTALK)


 There's always a radical element in almost all religions. They have to have an incentive. We give them that incentive. 

The question that you don't -- aren't willing to ask is, why is it that they
attack America? I mean, they don't attack the Canadians. They don't attack the
Swiss. If it were merely because they wanted to go into Europe, why do they...

(CROSSTALK)


 It is... 


 It is because we've gone six... 


 We have... 


 You paint all Islamics... 


 ... the same way, and this is a dangerous thing... 

(CROSSTALK)


 What you're doing is damaging our relationship by destroying our relationship with all Muslims. That's what you're doing. 


 Why do we support their dictators, then? Why do we prop up all their dictators? 


 The president asks a very important question. And we should all come together and we shouldn't have that many disagreements, because we should be bound -- bound by the Constitution. 

But the people in this country think we live in an age of relative ethics, is
what they have come to the conclusion of.

Sure, profess to believe in the Constitution, but why have we gone to war
since World War II without a declaration of war? Why do we have a monetary
system that is not designed by the Constitution? Why do we have a welfare
state running out of control, not designed by the Constitution?

You can't pay lip service to the Constitution without obeying it.

And we should have peace and prosperity. That should be our goal.

We, in foreign policy, ought to have a golden rule. We ought to treat others
as we would want others to treat us. And we don't treat others so fairly. We
treat them like we're the bully, that we're the policeman of the world, and
we're going to tell them to behave.


 If we don't -- if they don't listen to us, we bomb them. If they listen to us, we give them more money. And it's bankrupting this country because we don't live up to our principles, the principles that are embedded in our Constitution. 

(APPLAUSE)


 Charlie, you really answered the question -- you answered it in your question, because you said, "How can we afford a trillion- dollar war and we can't afford health care?" 

Well, that's the reason.

The resources are going overseas. We're fighting a trillion- dollar war and we
shouldn't be doing it. Those resources should be spent back here at home.

There is an inflationary factor. We can't afford it. We do have good medical
care, but the costs are so high now that our people in this country are
actually going to India and getting their heart surgery done.


 They pay the plane ticket, the hospital and the hotel and they get it for half-price. 

So it's inflation, but if you don't understand how inflation comes, we can't
solve this problem. It comes from deficit financing with this war-mongering
foreign policy we have. We run up the deficits. We tax. We borrow. We borrow
from the Chinese. We can't borrow enough.

Then what do we do? We print the money, and then you wonder where the
inflation comes. The value of the dollar is down and the prices go up, where
the government gets involved in certain things like housing or medical care or
education, prices are skyrocketing.

So you have to deal with the monetary issue to solve the problem of the
medical issue.


 Don't print anymore money. We don't need anymore money. 


 Get out of the war, and we wouldn't have to print the money. 


 Keep trying. 


 I think there is two points I'd like to make. 

One, I get a little bit worried when we talk about the tamper- proof I.D. for
illegals or immigrants, because how do you do that? Anybody that is an
immigrant or looks like an immigrant would have to have an I.D. And then, you
can't discriminate, so everybody's going to have the I.D.

I think it's opening the door for the national I.D., and we should be very,
careful about that.

But one thing that we haven't talked about here is about the economics of
illegal immigration. You can't solve this problem as long as you have the
runaway welfare state and excessive spending and the wiping out of the middle
class through inflation, because that's what directs the hostility, is people
are hurting.

And then, when we have all these mandates on the hospitals and on our schools.
And, no wonder. The incentives are there. There's an incentive for a lot of
our people not to work, because they can get welfare. And then there's a lot
of incentive because they know they're going to get amnesty. We gave it to the
illegals in the '80s.

And then, we put mandates on the states to compel them to have medical care.
And you say, well, that's compassionate. But what happens if the hospital
closes and then the people here in this country don't get medical care?

So you can't divorce it from the economics. You've got to get rid of the
incentives. No amnesty. And no forced benefits. Because, obviously, they'll
bring their families.

And it just won't work if you try to see this in a vacuum. And you have to
deal with it as a whole, as an economic issue as well.


 You know, it's interesting that you asked this question, because we have a lot of similarities, matter of fact, Barack Obama and myself, because our campaign is made up of young people. And frequently we will have young people joining us that came from Barack Obama's campaign and we're very pleased. 

But Barack spoke out against the war before it started, and he respects civil
liberties, and I respect him for that.

But the question is, is why, why would it be? I assume it's because of the
similarity in the age of us two candidates that young people are attracted to
us.

(LAUGHTER)


 But it is. It's the youthfulness of the ideas that bring the young people to us. 

But there is a difference between what Barack Obama is talking about, because
he does give hope to young people, and that what happens in our campaign.

But I talk a lot more about different kind of economic policies. I talk about
personal liberty and the right to people's personal life and getting --
stopping these wars and coming home and having a sensible monetary policy. And
young people like this.

But Barack Obama is not going to talk about the goal of getting rid of the
income tax and dealing with monetary policy. I mean, he is too much into the
welfare state issue, not quite understanding how free market economics is the
truly compassionate system.

If we care about the poor and want to help the poor, you have to have free
markets. You can't have a welfare state in order to try to take care of
people.


 I'll be glad to answer that question, because it's something I talk about all the time and it's a very important question. 

The Wall Street Journal yesterday had a very good chart that explains this. If
you look at the price of oil in the last 10 years, if you look at it in terms
of dollars, it went up 350 percent.

If you look at it in euros, it went up about 200 percent.

If you look at it in the price of gold, it stayed flat.

It's the inflation, it's the printing of money, it's the destruction of the
value of the dollar. Added on to this, the notion that we go to protect our
oil.


 Oil was $27 when we went over there to get the oil and protect the oil and take the oil from Iraq. There's less -- there's less than about half the production now in Iraq right now. And we're threatening Iran. And that pushes prices up. It pushes up the concept of supply and demand. 

But you can't deal with the price of oil without dealing with the supply and
demand of dollars. When you devalue the dollar -- and the dollar is going down
every day. And the further the dollar goes down, the higher the prices of oil
are going up. We have to understand that.



